Yes, I have arrived.
Success.
Hello.
Hello.
How is everyone?
I'm doing good.
Doing good?
Doing good.
Monday morning.
I'm excited.
Yay.
That's the most important thing.
Let's do a count.
One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine.
Nine.
Nine.
So we should have a tiny bit more.
The protocol will be that every time we start a class, we're going to wait until 05 to start.
And then there's going to be a recording for the people that are late.
So we have two more minutes to yap and digress.
And then after that, we lock in.
So good to know.
We don't need cameras for this, right?
So for me, it's easier if you have cameras, because it's easier for me to see you.
And I will put the camera on every time just so that it's easier to see me.
But if you want to have a camera, you can.
If you don't want to have a camera, it's completely fine to not have one.
Yes.
That's the whole schtick.
So it is not mandatory, but I encourage it.
I will yap about it.
I still need to buy one and set one up.
I might have one put away somewhere, though.
Well, if you do find one, great.
If you don't, it's OK.
OK.
We'll make it work without it.
Perfect.
I was writing down something.
Then we should be good.
Oh, it's five.
OK.
Well, time's out.
So that means that we can start.
I shut my screen.
Normally you should have everything.
I have the camera up.
Yeah.
As a reminder, this will be recorded.
If one of you is really, really not into getting recorded, et cetera,
you can keep your question noted down in a little piece of paper or in a notepad
and then ask it at the end of the session when we're done recording.
But yeah, it rarely happens.
But if it does happen, feel free to do that.
It's completely OK.
Yeah. Otherwise, you'll find the recordings online.
And that means that anything that has been said, you can just come back to it
and, like, re-listen to whatever was said.
Cool.
All right.
I am super excited to have everyone together once again.
This is the fifth boot camp I think I do.
I've been with Reference Apprentice since 2022.
Yeah, March.
I've done lots of stuff.
The boot camps have been my favorite.
Yeah.
So we're going to be together for a bunch of weeks and for eight weeks.
And we're going to go from, you know, one thing but not everything
to you're ready to possibly make a portfolio.
You're ready to.
You should, at the end of the boot camp, you should know where you're going.
So yeah, really exciting.
So yeah, as a first thing, the boot camp will have the 2D art.
It will have a lot of theory.
It will have a lot of technical parts, some practice,
some practical stuff to put in shape.
So there's a bit of everything.
By that, what I'm saying is that if there's one part that you are more interested in than another,
feel free to focus on it.
So for me, I am Nabilie.
I've worked as a VFX artist on many things now.
I've worked in the industry for six plus years now.
I started exactly in COVID, basically.
I started working for three weeks, three months, and then three, four months,
and then COVID started.
So I've done most of my career in remote.
So I can't really tell you that much about what it is to work in a studio directly,
but I've worked remote most of my time, and I've swapped companies a lot.
So I have a good idea of how to find a job.
I worked first for two years at Virtuous Games in Paris.
I worked on Horizon Zero Dawn, on Medal of Honor.
I worked on VR games.
I worked on Unreal, Unity, other engines.
So I've touched a bit of everything there.
And that's mostly outsourcing.
Then I worked for one year on Valorant, making mostly character effects.
And then finally, I worked for two years on World of Warcraft,
doing mostly raid effects, but also just kits in general.
So that's kind of our environment and focusing on one thing in particular.
And then now I'm working on a...
I did a bunch of stuff.
I did some Fortnite concerts, et cetera.
And now I'm working half-time, part-time on a small Barcelona game
called Raiders Rise.
It's like a small mobile game.
It's pretty fun.
And most importantly, it leaves me more time to do education.
Yeah, apart from that, I like lots of stuff.
I like nerdy stuff.
I like board games.
I do lots of things like that.
Yeah, so I'll gladly talk about that.
I saw a few of you said that you were fans of anime and stuff like that too.
I'm a big fan of that too.
So yeah, mostly for looking for references.
So we're going to be together for eight weeks, as I said.
So how this will work out is the following.
We're going to have sessions twice a week.
So the first sessions are always going to be now, at this time exactly.
Those sessions will be the reviews.
So we're going to take what you did during the week and I'm going to give you
feedback one by one to try and see what could be done better or where there
was something interesting that I found that I think everyone would benefit.
The goal is not to tell you specifically what you should do in the future,
but more to give insights for everyone to progress in the future.
Most of the time when I'll give feedback, I'll word it in a way that suggests
that you should do this in the future rather than that you should go back to a
work that you already did.
In my opinion, the more repetition you do, the more new projects,
new little art you make, the more you will learn.
And your goal here is to learn not to produce good art.
So yeah, like producing good art as a secondary option is cool.
But like the first thing you want to do is learn.
I think your mic isn't working.
Uh-oh.
Now?
Now.
Now, perfect.
My headset was unhappy.
Anyway, yeah.
So the first week is this week.
It's going to be mostly to get used to the system of what we're going to use.
I'll go a bit more into detail.
And then after that, we're going to go into 2D effects.
So specifically doing flip books, doing little trainings,
doing exercises in order to learn more how timing works.
That's all really good.
You'll see it's very fun.
You don't need to be very good at it.
And if you're already good at it, you're going to have fun, obviously,
because 2D animation is just raw fun.
But if you're not very good at it, you'll see it's actually really achievable.
And the class is honestly incredible.
Sonja, the mentor for this week, you'll see is incredible.
So yeah, this is the first thing you're going to do this week.
Every Friday and every Friday afterwards, we will find each other.
We will see each other at the same time as today in order to do a campfire.
The campfires are basically live sessions where I answer questions.
I have usually a little animation that's ready for you,
like, for instance, a little exercise that we do together, a little challenge.
I will give you perhaps some insights on specific things that I find interesting.
For instance, usually I do a little on week six, I do a little math one.
I do a little math one where I say, OK, let's do a little math recaps for those that are interested.
On week three, usually I'll do a little exercise where I show you some images
and you have to guess what color things are, what RGB kind of color things are, the hue.
So that can be quite fun, too. So yeah, just little challenges, et cetera.
Most importantly, if you have questions, if you have specifics that you need answered,
your portfolio, how does the industry work, you're struggling with motivation, et cetera,
this is also the perfect moment to put it out. So that's a one-hour session on Fridays.
So this week on the one-hour session on Fridays, I'll mostly just look at what you've done,
address any problems that you're having with the setup of the current class,
if there's anything, for instance, to show your work or to see if there's any problems for you to proceed.
So yeah, that's going to be that for this week.
So starting on week two, so on Monday we're going to shift.
I'm going to do the feedback, everything, and then from there on everything that you did in 2D VFX,
and then from there we can move on.
Week two will be your principles and practice. So there we're going to do 2D drawing practices,
possibly doing them on paper, if you can.
The goal is to start to get used to practicing and you're going to learn new artistic principles.
Week three, you're going to go deeper into artistic principles, working more on the composition,
the higher ideas, and then also working on elements.
So what makes the different elements that we use in VFX interesting.
Week four is going to be a combination of week one, two, and three,
to kind of bring it all together and make one nice 2D concept art.
So it's sort of pretty drawing that can be either animated or not.
Those week one to week four is basically art fundamentals, drawing, and all those parts there.
And then week five to eight is going to be the technical part.
Week five, you'll have an intro to 3D VFX, which is, once again, an incredible training.
I find that the videos are just awesome.
And then six is going to be meshes, Photoshop, basically how to get the different assets you need
in order to make VFX in games.
Week seven is going to be the shaders and material, which is my class too,
so you're going to get double time of my voice.
And then week eight, finally, is going to be the combination of five to eight and then even all of them.
You're going to make one big effect that looks kind of cool, and we're going to wrap it that up.
Also, week eight, usually we talk a lot about portfolios, where you want to go next, et cetera.
At the end of week eight, my goal is to leave you, to let you all go,
with a good plan for the next month that you have, basically,
what you should work on, what's your weakness, et cetera.
So we're going to have a talk at the end of week eight, just to know where to go further and what you need.
Okay.
I have some additional guidelines that are quite important.
So I mostly look at progress on Discord.
You've probably looked already at the website, et cetera.
There's forums, there's lots of things.
I look at it on Discord.
So how this works is that there is a whole setup on the website, which I suggest that you go look at.
So basically, you have this week one GBBB 06-2026-06 on Discord, just above the live session that we have right now.
So if you go to the live session, just above, there's this week one forum.
And on that forum, you have an assignment and submission post that you can just click on.
And inside, there's all the requirements to what you need to do for this.
And then you need to create your own little forum here that's called, for instance, Gabby Week One.
And then from there, you can put in whatever you want.
So you just put your name.
I'm really sorry, team.
I don't know why my headset is so unhappy.
It has never done that before.
I'll investigate.
It should be good by Friday.
Anyway, yes.
So yeah, there in that those forums is where you're going to put your updates every time.
So every one of you for every week, you're going to create a new forum, put in everything you work on, and there I can give you feedback.
So every time you write something there, in the span of about 24 hours, I'll try to answer you and to get something there.
All right.
So if any one of you, if any one of you doesn't like manage to do this or you find that perhaps something like is not working, et cetera, send me a PM immediately.
PMs are pretty easy to send.
Send me a PM and I'll sort it out.
We'll find a way.
If you at some point you have any blockers, if you're stuck with anything at all, just send me a PM.
Like, don't stay stuck.
If you stay stuck for like a few days thinking that you're going to solve it at some point and then you lose a whole week, you lose a lot of progress.
And I really don't want that.
It's really hard then to catch back up.
It's going to be annoying because you're not going to be synced with the rest of the class anymore.
It's going to cost you a lot.
Just send me a PM.
We will solve it afterwards.
I don't mind.
Use the forums.
Send me a PM if you're ever stuck on anything, even if it's like installing Unity or whatever, like just if you don't manage to send me a PM.
So I will answer your posts.
That's where I'm going to look, your forum posts.
I'll answer with feedbacks, perhaps other ideas.
If you just worked on something and you're happy with it, just post it in there.
And then I might say I might find something that I find interesting.
Imagine if we were all in the same room and like in school and the teacher was just passing behind your screen looking at what you're doing.
That's basically how I would like to be able to help you because I'm going to see things and be able to tell you, oh, on that part, you should perhaps do differently.
All right.
If I didn't answer within 24 hours and you feel like, oh, like this is important, you need an answer or something like that, send me a PM once again.
It's completely fine.
Just ping me.
I'll tell you, oh, OK, like I didn't have the time.
I'll answer you in X amount of time if I really have a problem.
I'm completely fine if you ping me again, if you feel like I forgot something.
I'm here to help on anything, not just like VFX or not just the specific thing we're talking about now, but if you want to talk career, if you want to talk, how do we get into the industry?
If you want to talk mythology, how do you manage motivation?
How do you manage lack thereof?
How do you manage your own energy?
Perhaps you don't have a lot of time to work on your work transition.
Perhaps you're working like double time.
Perhaps you only have like one hour per week.
On the contrary, you have so much time and you don't know what to do with it.
I can help with all those things.
Just tell me what you're looking for exactly.
And we can talk about it and we'll find one solution.
And you'll be surprised.
Perhaps you think this is something that's only for you.
But usually students, they're really interested in that, too.
If at any point it has happened before, if at any point someone, well, one of you is just a student,
you're just not feeling it.
This is actually not really for you.
Or you're just super demotivated.
Something is going wrong.
You're just, it's not vibing for you.
Perhaps the weeks feel very long or there's some parts that are just like clunky.
Or yeah, just anything that makes you not having a good time right now.
Just let's talk about it.
Send me a message.
Let's talk about it before you completely burn out on it.
One thing that I very, very often say, and I'll say it again, burnout is never worth it.
Whatever the amount of things you think you need right now, whatever the amount of work you think you,
like the faster you need to work, you never need to work faster than burnout.
Like burnout will always be like a cost on the long run.
And that's never what you want to do when you're learning a new skill.
All right.
So the guidelines to create the post once again.
So you go into the kickoff orientation.
You go into the week one, GGVV1, et cetera.
And then you go to new post here.
Okay.
Then you create your web forum post.
So you call it your name dash week one and that one.
And then you post anything that you're interested in, the gifts, et cetera.
And then they'll appear here and I'll be able to see them at the end of the week.
There is always a week one kickoff in orientation.
Okay.
So at the end of the week, there was always a week one assignment and submission at the end of the week.
At the end of the week, you need to post one thing that you did that you're pretty happy with into those assignments and submissions.
Usually there are some, the submissions are indicated in the forum.
So if you don't know what to put in, it's usually written.
So yeah, for instance, Ben posted this incredible submission.
And since Ben is my manager, I will always say, wow, Ben, this is incredible.
All right.
Let's do a first round of questions.
I'm interested to know if there's anything that wasn't clear or any other questions you have.
Feel free to ask any questions.
We have one hour, so we have 40 more minutes.
I am very happy to go through down like anything that you would have any like uncertainties, et cetera.
And then after that, what we'll do is that we'll go to I'll go a little bit deeper onto what we're actually doing this week.
In week five, it said that we're going to be doing 3D VFX.
Does that mean that I'm eventually going to have to install a version of Toon Boom Premium?
It's not. I don't know why it's not working well.
I will find a solution.
Anyway, yeah.
So any questions?
And then after that, we'll do a roundtable to what I would like to know is some students didn't post into the bootcamp chat, which is completely fine.
It was a small extra just so that I could prepare.
But yeah, I would like to just hear from every one of you a little bit, like what you want to do, what you're interested in.
So let's start here with questions.
And then after that, we'll do a little roundtable where everyone can just present themselves.
It said on the schedule that in week five, we're going to be doing 3D VFX.
Does this mean that I'm going to have to get Toon Boom Harmony?
Or like what program is that going to?
Yeah, that's fair.
So a few things.
One, on the first week, we're going to do 2D VFX.
2D VFX are going to be done using either Animate, Toon Boom Harmony, or honestly anything else that you want.
There is a deal for a student license for Toon Boom Harmony, stuff like that.
So yeah, there's options.
Those are for making 2D effects.
You can also make 2D effects in Krita, possibly.
So that's also an option.
That's a free option.
So yeah, those are all the options.
After that, when you make 3D effects in week five, those are made either in Unity, Unreal, or if you feel adventurous, you can use Godot.
Which I obviously only recommend, but there's not as many videos on it.
So those will be like all the 3D VFX is made using 3D engines.
Oh, OK.
For Harmony, does the basic version, is it enough?
Or do we need the second tier one?
Because there's different subscriptions.
If I quickly can chime in.
If you want to have Toon Boom, it mainly depends on what you want to do with it.
If you just want to follow the class and just want to do your first little 2D animation, the basic, like the essential package is enough.
If you want to do more with it, then you basically have to go to the premium version, which then has the node graph, which lets you do like glows, blurs, masks, and like additional things.
You really don't need it for the start.
It's more if you then want to expand on it.
There's some in the lesson.
There might be something where you, like, once I think you add a glow at the very start, where they just show what the program can do, you can just skip that.
So if you don't want to go further or already know how I really love 2D animation, I want to stay at 2D animation, and I already tested around and really liked Toon Boom, then premium is good.
But for just starting out, I think like either one of the free versions or using the Adobe Suite for Photoshop and Animate might be your better bet.
Otherwise, the essentials is totally fine for the things you do right now.
I could like, honestly, unless you want to do like specifically only, I think, honestly, you'll be able to do flip books or do anything.
If there's something you can't do, you'll be able to do edit your flip book then in Photoshop or something else.
Like, yeah, so I wouldn't bother too much, especially for learning.
You really don't need it.
Gabi, personally, which one do you use?
I personally use Animate for my animation simply because I learned Flash.
So then this is what I use.
Different software, they use different shortcuts, which are really annoying.
So, yeah, you just want to use the one that you're used to.
So learn one and then use that one.
In studios, it doesn't matter.
You'll be given some licenses sometimes.
But otherwise, honestly, if you make your flip book using Krita, like if you're if like, I have no jobs where like I couldn't just install Krita and just actually like use whatever I wanted.
The only thing that's constraint is usually the game engine and the game engine is very similar to the other.
Like there are some changes, but once you know the principles.
So, yeah, I wouldn't bother too much.
Use one of them that seems like it works for you.
For the other software, that's interesting for everyone.
I use Animate, I use Blender for all my 3D models and stuff like that.
And then after that, I use Photoshop for my drawing.
And that's it.
And then after that, I use Unity, Unreal, anything else.
I prefer Unreal for my own project because I can code a little bit and so I can make my own tools.
But I can use Unreal easily.
Any other question?
On week three, I had mentioned it in the support.
I'm going to be going to Australia to visit family and I will have my laptop with me.
I'll have everything downloaded on it.
I'll be able to continue working.
But because of the time change and flying on the 19th, that Friday, I will be in the air.
So missing the campfire session, I was curious.
I'm like, is that OK?
So the live sessions on Mondays are always recorded.
The Friday ones are not necessarily always recorded, but they can always be recorded on request.
If you want it to be recorded, we can just say that the week three, June 15, is recorded and that's easy.
So that's the first thing.
Second, the campfires are, you don't have to.
If you can't make it or if you can't make the Friday sessions, you don't have to.
The Monday ones are necessary.
And then the last part of your question was, yes, if you are missing something,
if you're missing your feedback at some point, if you didn't have the time, if you had a specific question that you needed to ask, you can just ask it on the site.
I'll answer on the site.
So overall, it shouldn't be a problem.
That's my answer.
Sorry for asking your second question, but I do intend on attending all of these meetings just because I think it's better for my productivity to keep myself on track.
But there isn't mandatory attendance for this class, is there?
The Monday ones, if you miss them, it's not mandatory.
I have no power to tell you.
You're all adults. I have no power to tell you that you should or should not be there.
But the Monday ones is, if you miss them, you will miss a significant part of what you missed.
Because they are kind of the closer of the previous week and the opener of the week after.
They will all be recorded, so you can always view them at your discretion.
And whatever you post, even if you're not here, I will still give you feedback during the live session.
So despite you not being there, I will look through whatever you send me.
If you send me a long message, I can read it out and then kind of get back at the same time.
So normally, even if you can't make them, I'll still be able to give them to give feedback to them and to like them.
But you do need to at least like read them because they are kind of like the mouse from like, OK, now we're stopping doing we don't do to the effects anymore.
We go to the to the the material class.
There's no like you can't fail the class if you don't put in one assignment or if you don't show up for live session or anything like this.
So you can get a certificate afterwards either way.
I will I will help you with anything if there's if you have not been able to send any reason, including motivational reasons, including like just bad luck.
I have some people that fast had like just, oh, my parents had an accident.
I can't make it. How can I do? I will try to accommodate as much as I can.
There are some things I can do, some things I can't. And most of them are on my free time.
So I will try to accommodate as much as I can to make sure that you have the best time possible.
If suddenly you thought that you would have 10 hours to work on it per week and actually you have to, then we'll we'll change that.
If at some point you have to skip a whole week, we'll get to talk about it and I'll say, hey, this part of the week is important.
Everything else is not. So next week, let's let's do this.
Let's rearrange the plans for that next week. You work only on this and then you catch back up in the rest of the.
So, yeah, this happens every boot camp.
So there's no reason for it to happen this time.
And just feel free if at some point you feel like, oh, there's something that happened or, oh, you have one week where you're just not there.
We talk about it. I think someone already in the boot camp chat talked about that idol.
Yeah, so we'll do that. And that's completely fine.
But that just always works. Also, if some people, some of you can only be here for a certain amount of time on the Mondays, I will make you pass in the moments that you can be there.
For instance, let's say you have a work meeting at 1730.
Well, I'll always have you go at the start.
That way you're always there when I do it.
Or if it's the opposite, we'll do that.
So, yeah, if you have stuff that is a one time problem, tell me in advance.
That way I can schedule that rather than having to leave in the middle.
Yeah, it's completely fine.
OK, thank you.
Anything else? Any other questions?
I have a question about remote work since you mentioned you mostly work that way.
Is VFX pretty remote friendly for like most studios or how do you find it?
I find it pretty. So VFX is a branch of art.
Art usually is like really hard to find like jobs.
Like if you're looking for 2D concept art, sometimes it's difficult.
Like there's a lot of competition.
It's a pretty saturated place where sometimes you don't get that much of a good like rate.
Yeah, I'm exactly in that discipline.
So I might have to try to put it in context.
Yeah, so compared to that, VFX is way less strained.
On the contrary, usually studios are lacking VFX artists.
Because a lot of VFX artists are in outsourcing studios like Toa Tara, Beyond Effects, etc.
Like big outsourcing and smaller ones.
And then on top of that, school schools, they usually teach you either art or tech.
But they never teach you both at the end of it, where you have a game school.
And so it's very rare that someone coming out of a game school knows how to do VFX.
So that means that there's very little VFX artists on the market.
And with the turnover of the games industry being about five years,
it means that it's actually difficult to find VFX artists that stick and that are available.
So for that, we are pretty lucky for VFX to basically not be too affected by the current state of the job market.
And I would say that overall, that's a pretty encouraging project.
Did I answer your question? Was there an extra part?
No, no, that was basically it. Thank you.
I think it's pretty good. I think overall, you're in a pretty good situation.
Like things are not too bad on the VFX side.
And on the contrary, I think 2D is pretty hard.
That said, things can change.
I'm trying to keep up to AI as much as I can, just to know what I can and can't do.
I learned about it mostly so that in an interview I can be like, I know my shit.
I don't want to use it, like go away.
But I know how you can use AI to do VFX.
I don't think right now it has any value.
It's mostly gadgets.
But I think in the future it could.
And in that case, that could change how the job market works.
So it's important to keep updated and to know how things could go.
As of right now, I don't believe that AI will be a severe problem with VFX
other than studios downgrading on everything until the job market becomes scarce.
But since it's already easy to find a job as a VFX artist, I think that will stay the same.
Any other questions?
Do you think, so as like a junior for finding work as a junior VFX site,
because I look at job openings and of course I'm working on my portfolio and stuff like that,
but it seems like it's really hard to find internships or junior positions,
or I guess I don't know if it's associate, but it's like almost all senior roles.
OK, so I'll start with the first thing that I like to say is that we agree that a VFX artist is also,
like a junior VFX artist is also a VFX artist, right?
And so if there's a job that says VFX artist, you can just apply to that, right?
And that's fine.
On top of that, honestly, studios, like who posts the job requirements?
Like basically this is HR or it's like recruiters that are somewhere else, et cetera.
They want someone that's efficient, that will be independent, that can work always.
But honestly, if you come in, if they're waiting for a long time and you come in and you're like,
well, I'm not the thing that you're looking for, but I still can do a job, even with some supervision,
that can totally be negotiated. They can come to it.
So there's no opening because the openings are made by people that write openings for like a whole swath.
As I said before, VFX is often clumped up with all the other art stuff,
but the job market for VFX versus for like animators or for the art is very different.
And so oftentimes like a recruiter will kind of like, I've had recruiters like talk to me as if I was like,
I had like, I was desperate to find a job.
I was like, I'm sorry, dude, but you just don't understand.
I have other people that are waiting for giving me a job. It's fine.
Obviously as a junior, I'm not going to sugarcoat it.
As a junior in the games industry in general, it's hard.
It's even harder with AI being like, oh, you shouldn't hire juniors, blah, blah, blah.
Like the little voice that's inside the recruiters for execs and other people.
But overall, I think that as long as you don't stop yourself from applying, you're going to be fine.
So to sum up, just apply.
Apply even if it's a senior. If it says mid, perfect, apply.
If it says just VFX artist, you're qualified, apply.
As my partner always says, they have never got a job that they were qualified for.
They always applied for a job that they weren't qualified for.
And they just learned the rest of the stuff on the way.
Just apply, talk to the people, be candid about whatever you know how to do.
You'll see that people are willing to negotiate because they're actually,
usually when they have a job opening and they've stayed for a little bit,
they're already getting you in the interview.
They're pretty desperate to get you.
Thank you. Thank you.
That said, there's a caveat to that is that as for every bootcamp,
a lot of people you come in with like, oh, I want to work at Riot or Blizzard or whatever,
or I want to work somewhere else.
Like at a specific company, like, oh, I love, I don't know, like a slave supplier.
And I want to work with that specific.
That's usually a point of, like, something that's kind of disappointing because there's stuff,
whatever how good you are, there's some things in life that make it so that those things are completely out of your control.
You can have the best portfolio, et cetera.
And it just depends on the mood of someone or it depends on the policies of like remote working for different countries
that will just make it so that it's impossible.
For instance, right now, if you are a, if you are European and you want to work for Riot or Blizzard,
it's going to be very, very hard.
There's like, it's going to be extremely hard.
And I think that if that's your setup, if that's your goal, you're going to probably be disappointed.
So, but at the same time, you will, there's, there's a lot of other options that are very similar,
but you wouldn't think about until you're actually there.
So, yeah, just as a little reminder, just try to not fixate too much onto the actual destination.
At the risk of being cheesy, focus on the journey and not the destination, blah, blah, blah.
You get the gist.
Okay.
I hope that was informative.
Sorry, but would you say that instead of focusing on the company, would you focus on the art style, for example?
If I want to do realistic VFX, then I don't know how to target like dice or something like, you know,
or like stylized that would focus on, I don't know, Valorant or League of Legends or things like that, right?
So, not the company, but the art style, right?
So that's what you would build your portfolio based on that kind of like direction, right?
Yeah, exactly.
Just focus on the kind of work you want to do, the kind of work you want to do.
For instance, I'll tell you that for me, I have always liked working on...
Like most of the games I've worked on, I didn't like the game itself.
I didn't like playing the game.
Or like, for instance, I worked two years on World of Warcraft and I don't like World of Warcraft.
I didn't like it when I came into it and I didn't like...
And like after coming out of the job, like it was fun working on it,
but playing the game itself, I'm not particularly interested.
And so, and then like same for Valorant.
Like I worked with Valorant, but like honestly, like shooters are not really my thing.
I'm really bad at shooters and I don't really like guns that much.
So like it just, it's funny how like a lot of games, like you might think, oh, I want to play on...
I want to work on the game that I love playing.
But actually, you'll find out that sometimes you like working on games,
even like the task of working on games, on certain games that you don't like playing,
but you like working on it.
So yeah, those are two different things.
It can be an idea also to be a couple of them.
Like I would hate working on fighting games, for instance, but I would love working.
Like I would love working on fighting games, but I hate playing fighting.
I'm so bad at them and they just frustrate me all the time, so I don't play them.
Any other questions?
All right, let's do a little roundtable.
I'm going to go up to down, so starting with Chris, and I'll finish with that.
What I'm asking you is basically just to give me a little rundown of basically who you are
and what you want to do after the bootcamp.
That's the most important thing for me.
So where you come from and what you want to do after the bootcamp.
So yeah, I know you already answered a bit of that,
but repeating them can like give me more information that could be interesting.
Yeah, so let's start with Chris.
So I'm Chris, last name outlaw.
I am in Texas, United States, and I graduated a few weeks ago with my BFA computer animation.
As Gabby said, a lot of the schools don't really teach VFX.
It was mostly just like fundamentals of 2D and some 3D modeling and rigging and stuff like that.
And so I had to kind of like beg my portfolio teacher to let me work on Unreal
and like things that they hadn't taught us before, even though they like heavily advised against it,
like, you know, you shouldn't try and do something that you've never done before.
I'm like, well, I'm going to try.
So, yes, I would like to after this camp to to work in VFX for video games,
even though it's difficult right now.
That's the goal, but I'm not opposed to doing VFX for animation.
I have the the Elemental Magic books, and they're really awesome.
And like learning from Gilland and seeing all the work that he did like with Pocahontas
and like the Disney Renaissance movies and like those VFX is just like amazing.
So being able to do something like that also, I'm not opposed to, but that's kind of I will tell you,
it is way easier to find a job in games than in animation.
And it's games jobs are way healthier than animation, even 3D animation or whatever.
Like this is just a nightmare.
Like you're crunching all the time, like the delays are crazy.
You get fired from companies all the time.
It's a nightmare.
Whereas games animation is way more like a game VFX is way more healthy.
In my opinion, you get like longer contracts when things die.
You get a bit more severance placed or it's a bit less chaotic.
So yeah, I would be surprised if you didn't find in games, but you found in animation.
That would be funny.
Yeah.
So where are you?
Where are you situated in the US?
Austin, Texas.
In Austin.
Yes.
Awesome.
Okay.
Yeah.
I think this is great.
I think this is a good.
You're in a good plan.
You have a good.
You have a good idea of where you're going.
You're realistic to get there.
I think in general, it's a good career plan.
The fact that you already have computer animation means that you have already a lot of basis.
The main thing you're going to need is the art principles, which you already have a bunch of them.
Yeah.
And then craft, craft, craft.
You get like good at it.
One thing I recommend you do.
I think I see how you do.
Do you need to?
You do lots of stuff.
One thing I recommend you do is really work on your fundamentals.
Don't go too fast.
One thing I've seen students with your profile struggle with is if you like start with something that's too ambitious immediately.
You're just like, oh, I want to make the fan art of that really cool thing.
Unless you have infinite time, that's really it might sap both your motivation and cost you a lot of time.
So, yeah, that's what I recommend you do.
And then the last question I have for you is, do you have a time limit?
Do you have like a budget of time or like, are you working on the side or are you full time doing this?
So I was a full time student and I graduated.
Of course, I'm not employed right now.
And so my goal, since I'm going to Australia to visit family, was to like work on this as much as possible and hope I get a job by like August or September.
August or September.
OK, yeah.
So September.
So that's like less than two months.
Yeah. OK.
So usually making a portfolio is about two months, something like that.
And then you need to finish the class, do a little bit of one month and then do a portfolio.
So that's three, four, five months.
Five months is the realistic moment where you can start looking for jobs if you do everything as fast as possible, which is possible with your profile.
So with that, yeah, just to give you some experience.
OK, thank you.
Awesome.
Oh, there we go.
I forgot I'd push the talk on.
Hi, my name is Joshua Judd.
I'm living in New York City right now.
Mostly kind of self-taught blender enthusiast, 3D generalist.
I haven't really focused that much on VFX until recently.
And yeah, I'm trying to I'm treating this as school, essentially, because I've never done any really formal college education into the arts.
So I'm trying to give this that amount of effort and hopefully around like January or February, try to apply for internships, jobs, whatever comes my way.
OK, good timeline.
January, February, I think that can totally work.
I saw you were doing modding and like doing a lot of stuff like that.
And you have like extra full access afterwards.
So I think overall January is a really good timeline.
You can kind of target that and make sure that like you have everything ready or kind of solid by there.
So if you're for me, it took two months to find a job while I was hunting.
But it's really just luck.
Sometimes it's more, sometimes it's less.
I know some people, they started like hunting, they found super, super fast.
So it's really just like the fact that you did like lots of modding before, I think will help you a lot.
It depends on what you did before.
But you seem to have a good knowledge of a lot of things from what you said.
So I think it's really possible.
What I would focus on is kind of like how the industry works in particular.
So like the different separation of works, et cetera.
And then what I would focus on afterwards is translating any skill that you already have from modding into what you're doing right now.
So I think that that's really valuable.
And any skill that you can transfer and kind of get, it will give you a little touch, a little edge that other people.
Cool. Got it.
Awesome.
Gabby, guess me.
No, not me.
Yeah. Hello. Can you hear me?
Yes.
All right.
Yeah, my name is Gabriel.
I'm from Brazil.
You can call me Gabe, I guess, because you already have Gabby.
Even though like my nickname is also Gabby.
Should reach out however you guys want.
I've been working with games for about 15 years, for the last 10, switching between tech, art and UI, but mostly UI.
Especially implementing like the art part more than the logic one.
And today I'm like gravitating towards the logic.
And I realized I like the art part a lot more.
So I had a few experiences in smaller companies doing effects for one or two things, especially when like the artists couldn't make it and we had to get something done.
And I was usually the guy who was like, hey, I know you have some like tech art-ish tech art skills.
So can you take this and kind of doing real fast?
And I realized that was like super fun.
It was basically the cherry on the cake of whatever I was doing.
So when I saw like the camp, I was like, you know what?
I'm going to give it give this a go.
And one thing that I noticed trying to study effects alone is it's really hard to to have like good quality instruction on foundations and building a good good fundamentals.
There's a lot of things online.
Sure. But knowledge is mostly scattered around and it's very hard to find some some place that's going to guide you to a path, wherever it is.
So that's basically my goal here is just to build a basic foundation that's like good enough that I can hold my own skills basically later to however path I want to take and basically follow it.
So I don't have like a super, super aggressive goal of finding a job super soon, but I want to make the switch if I can.
If I enjoy this as much as I think I will, I want to switch careers by next year, the earlier the better, of course.
But my first focus is building a strong, solid foundation and knowing the fundamentals and being able to know what I'm doing and know how to how to grow myself, right?
How to explore different paths and learn stuff.
That's really the tech art mindset.
We can hear the tech art talking.
I want to build a system that's really robust that can be used for everything.
Kind of like that. Yeah.
Excellent. Yeah. Awesome. Yeah.
I think that's really good.
I didn't know there was tech art and I only wrote down UI software.
So I think that's going to be really helpful.
Tech art and the effects are really close.
So I think there the thing that you should focus the most on is those first four weeks.
The rest you're going to learn obviously a ton.
But I think like the material class, for instance, you're probably going to breeze through it.
Yeah. If there's at any point some extra elements you're interested in and you want to go deeper into, feel free to ask me if there's some stuff that you really just know already, especially in the last four weeks.
Otherwise, I think that's going to be fine.
The fact that you don't have a timeline is great.
Great. I think that if you have any extra questions on that of like where you could go to, I'm happy to try and help you with the potentials that could exist.
Absolutely. I'm sure they're going to bug you on that.
I'll probably bug you a lot on the shaders class as well.
And for the first one, I think they're going to be a little harder for me, but they are the ones that I'm most excited for because it's the ones that have the least experience.
So it's going to be an adventure and I'll make the most of the time that I have.
I still have like a regular nine to five job and all my free time is basically going to be boot camp.
And that's the only thing I'm going to think of for the next two months basically.
Okay. So one thing I'll tell you on top of that is there's going to be some exercises that are offered.
And I have more exercises if you're looking for to get better, like stuff that you can do like 15 minutes every day, stuff like that.
I feel like this is something that could interest you.
I'm going to introduce you to them, but not force you to actually do them necessarily.
If you want to do them, ask me and I'll set you up to do them more regularly.
That will help you a lot. Get better fast.
Absolutely. I already want that.
Again, I'm all here. Thank you.
Awesome. Is there anyone that needs to go?
I usually go over the time limits just to wrap up everything that is needed.
But if anyone needs to go in advance, tell me and I will have you skip the line and pass first.
Otherwise, Hi Tam.
Yes. Hello. My name is Hi Tam and I am originally from Morocco, but I moved to Hungary like around six years ago.
I still haven't learned Hungarian yet. It's a difficult language, but I've been here.
So I moved as a student. I studied like computer science engineering.
And after I graduated, I started working.
So I work as a support engineer and I'm still working now full time.
And I'm trying to fit like some time to do the boot camp as well.
Yes. So what I'm interested. So I have like a plan, kind of like I put like a mental deadline as well.
I'm trying to focus like on at least like the next six months to at least like, you know,
find something like like, I don't know, an internship or like a job that I can start with.
And the idea I have in my head is that I don't want to like jump around.
So I love all types of VFX, of course. So I love everything.
I love everything. But I'm trying like to focus mainly on something that I can I feel like I am more I can be good at.
So I'm thinking like maybe I can start with like focus on a certain style, like stylized, for example, VFX.
Like I said, like maybe League of Legends or like Valorant or kind of similar mobile style.
So in that way, so that's like my vision that I would build my portfolio on.
And like you said, you mentioned like being in Europe and
like having difficulty like working like remotely or rather like working with some of the big studios.
But the plan I have in mind is like to target like some outsourcing studios if possible.
But I know it could be like a huge leap. But so, yeah.
OK. I think we're in a good spot there.
I can't say I'm having some echo from you though.
Perfect. What I can say is the following.
So I think that overall you're in a good spot.
The thing about Europe, as I was saying, is like being hired directly there is kind of hard.
But you can still work through outsourcing. You can still find other ways.
And there are other companies that do exactly the same thing but in Europe.
So the only thing I'm saying is don't focus on working at that company specifically.
Focus on working on games that look like that. And there are plenty.
So you won't be too much of a problem. Remote work is totally a thing.
You can totally remote work. So if you're in Budapest and you want to work somewhere else, totally possible.
It takes a bit of time. Sometimes you will be discriminated out of that from like just from junior jobs.
But as soon as you find one and you start to get six months of experience somewhere or a year of experience somewhere,
then you won't have problems jumping out to other remote stuff.
So I don't think that will be a problem. The different studios, Virtuos and Toyota Adara, I've worked for both.
They will work out too well for that. They look for small contracts.
So sometimes it's hard to build a career that's like going to be long for a long time.
Thank you.
Next up, Idle. Idle said that they can't have the mic.
Hi, hi. I don't talk now. I'm out of my work hours for now. I have like another free hour.
I don't know if it sounds nice. I'm on my earbuds.
This is good, yeah.
All right. Thank you. My name is Ignacio. I'm called Nacho. I'm from Argentina, from Buenos Aires.
I enrolled to this because as I said previously, there's a lot of scattered knowledge across the internet.
But there's no info about the basics. I work as a game designer. I'm a teacher, actually.
I oversee the final projects in my university.
And I follow along during a whole semester and try to get a vertical slice.
I really enjoy my job. So right now I work also as like an indie dev with a friend that's a programmer.
We used to be both programmers. But since he can't really or doesn't really like art at all, I kind of deviated first because of shaders.
I found them like really cool and interesting. So I started from there.
But then I realized that shaders are fine. But I really like making like cool VFX, you know.
I used to study civil engineering. So I really, really like math. I enjoy a lot of math and physics.
So when I went into shaders, I had like a really big fun, you know, and I kind of switched it from programming.
I went out of it, abandoned, let my children program everything on our games.
And I fully advocated into like game design and art, which is shaders because I don't really think I'm good.
I don't really model very well. I know like the basics, you know, just to survive.
So I fully went for the tech part of the of the branch, you would say.
But when I started like seeing visual effects come to life, I was like, I really want to do this.
And this popped up on my Twitter. Yeah. Popped up on Twitter.
And I was like, oh my God, there's this website. I'm going to see like there's a beginner bootcamp.
And I'm like, all right, I really need this. Like I need this to actually understand what I'm doing because that was like my main issue.
You know, I learned from here and there, but I could never like get onto it.
I have a question. Yeah. Is your goal to then teach VFX to some students or is it just for the small like?
I don't really have it like as a goal. You know, I would like to teach in the future.
I teach as my main shop, but I also have like different side projects I work on like in the games that I'm developing.
I'm working on three of them right now. I also would like to teach as well VFX.
One of the reasons I really wanted this basic course is because in my university, the VFX part is very lacking and it's very good to give feedback and stuff for the game.
So I would like to also learn so I could give them like a proper oriented class on how to implement.
My signature works a lot regarding like game design itself, but I do have certain control over like art and programming.
So in the art part, I really wanted to implement the VFX part.
And I think I would really like to work like as a teacher of VFX. I find it really enjoyable.
It's like math related and I really enjoy math. And when I went into game design, I think I kind of lost the math part.
Programming is fine, but yeah.
So what I can do is that in the future, if you have any questions like how do you learn VFX, what are the different steps?
I can help you out with that if that's something that you're interested in afterwards.
And in like six months, like you're interested in like, oh, like, how could I set up this with this?
I'm happy to talk and like find stuff like that.
As for everything you said before, I think there's not going to be much problems with that.
I think your profile, like as an indie dev, it's going to be slightly different than the rest of this boot camp in particular.
Although your profile is not particularly uncommon.
So I think that's going to be OK, too.
If you have any specific projects that you want to show at some point and you want to have like feedback on or like, how do I implement this for my game?
Feel free to ask and I'll be happy to help out.
Thank you so much.
One of the reasons I really want to do this is because I'm developing a combat game and it's based on light and shadows.
And I kind of need like work on the VFX on it and the shaders.
But when I saw this, it's like I finally can see like a course and actually works on the basics.
I hope you find the answers that work out for that.
I'll gladly help.
Thank you so much.
Yeah, no problem.
Jasa.
Yeah, so my name is Jascha.
Jascha, of course.
Polish spelling can be tricky.
I had a no parrot when I was a kid that was called Jascha.
I should have known.
So, yeah, so I've been been working in games for like eight years as a concept artist.
So right now I'm working at Spara Soft on Fortnite, but I have like two months left on my contract and I will be leaving the company.
I think for sure after that.
And I've been trying to find like concept work for six months, I think now.
And as you all know, it's really tough, especially for concepts.
So I thought I would retrain to a different discipline, but one that still uses some of the skills that I had previously.
So I have I have thing, OK, drawing and like 3D, but I have zero animation experience.
And anything I ever did was like, you know, still frames.
So no animation.
And also, I didn't do too much like organic stuff.
I was mostly, you know, hard surface, like tech stuff and architecture.
So, yeah, perfect.
Well, so, yeah, you want to do you want to get a job ASAP after this, basically?
Would be would be great.
It would be very optimistic to to to to, you know, get it right after.
But hopefully in the months after, you know, as I say, often people when you do the class, there's three things you need to learn.
One is art.
The second is games industry.
The third is tech.
And you already know two more or less.
The thing that you're missing is like animation.
Which you probably already have instinctively some some things, even if you don't realize.
So I think that overall, it's realistic to kind of go quite fast.
I think that at the end of the boot camp, like you will be very close to being able to not make a portfolio, but at least like be very close to making a portfolio.
And so I think that, like, again, that's five months, four to five months benchmark.
I think it's going to be quite close.
And you're used to making a portfolio as you know.
You're used to like like polishing kind of like a thumbnail to make it like look professional, et cetera, that you're going to skip on a lot of those skills.
That's like usually two to three weeks that people have.
Like, so I think that will help you.
And it will also make it way easier for you to find a junior job or like a job there because you already have experience in the games industry and like experience in games industry is a direct skip.
Basically, it's just really good.
So, yeah, I think overall, like the skills that you have are going to help a lot.
I was asking about the remote part because I'm not in Warsaw in Poland because like Warsaw would be the main games industry hub.
I'm in Wrocław, which is like another big city in Poland.
I'm not in Warsaw in Poland because like Warsaw would be the main games industry hub.
I'm in Wrocław, which is like another big city, but not so much in terms of game dev.
So remote would be great.
Remote exists and is totally available for juniors.
Sometimes it's annoying.
So what I did is I moved to Paris for my first job.
And then after that, I delivered everything remote because it was just easy to find something physical.
I think remote culture has evolved since COVID in both ways.
I think there's a lot of indies that will just pick you up.
You do one year of that.
And then after that, you can find a remote job very easily.
And even then, I think that if you ever worked remotely for your job at least once, then people will just be like, oh, you already did it.
It already worked.
Perfect. Let's thank you for every time.
So I think that's going to be fine.
Yeah, I've been remote 100% since COVID.
Yeah. So I think that's going to be fine.
If you're capable of saying, hey, I've done it before, trust me.
People are going to be like, oh, if you've done it before, then surely you know how to do it.
The only thing they're scared of is the elusive idea of a young junior that needs to be managed and can't be managed because they're remote.
Somehow being physically there will help.
I don't know how.
Yeah, I think that one thing that's really important that you need to keep in mind, since you have those skills already, use those skills.
Leverage those a lot.
Try to think of VFX a lot with meshes, with what's called volumes.
Try to think a lot about, OK, I have this still frame.
I'm going to basically animate this still frame.
You make this thing, basically, that's really cool.
And then you just animate it as a VFX that comes in, shows, and then comes out.
That honestly will simplify so much of your work afterward.
Leverage a lot your current job and your current skills, and that will help a lot.
All right, awesome.
MechMoneyz.
Hello.
Hello.
My name is Jen.
I actually work in the game industry already as a UI designer.
So I've been working for about 14 years.
And I decided to take this class as mainly like an upgrade for my skills because I do the UI, but we also have to do a lot of VFX on it.
And we do have a VFX artist, but he's pretty busy on character work.
So he thought it would be a good idea for me to like learn it so I can start doing it more on the UI end.
And maybe it will transition to helping him do the character work.
So that's pretty much why I'm here.
So I don't really have like a timeline or I'm not looking to switch my career or anything.
I mean, maybe I might end up liking enough that I might want to do that in the future, but I have a feeling I'll be able to do that within the studio.
So I'm not too worried about that.
I do have drawing and illustration skills as well.
So I think that will help me a lot.
Yeah, you're in the perfect position.
I've seen multiple people be in that position.
That's like the most comfortable position.
Basically, you can change job inside the company because they have a need.
It's very common that there's not enough VFX artist in the studio.
And you can either continue your job exactly the same, but with that extra skill that you can then leverage in order to find a job as a UI artist.
Or you can change jobs in the same company, which is usually more smooth.
You can also keep the salaries if there are advantages or leverage that too.
And you can do that at your own pace while not looking at a job, et cetera, and having the stigma of like, oh, you're a junior or whatever.
So I think overall, you have a really comfortable situation there for that.
I've seen multiple people do that.
So this is very common, especially UI artists or tech artists.
They're the two that usually go to VFX and then either stay in there or shift to VFX.
Yeah, I can see myself doing that just because it feels more creative.
UI can be creative, but I think doing effects and stuff can be an added bonus.
And you're also in Vancouver, you said?
Yeah, I'm in Vancouver.
Vancouver is great. It's the right time zone too.
It's going to be easy to find remote work if you need remote work.
It's going to be easy to find jobs if you need jobs.
I think that overall, you're in a good situation there.
If you're looking for work specific for UI, focus on the first week.
That's going to be the most important part.
Focus on 2D.
Usually it's 2D flipbooks that are the most important.
So there and then shaders will help you a lot to make it look as crisp and good as possible.
I'm also trying to learn Unreal.
We just switched over to Unreal, so it's new to me.
Okay, that's fair.
I can help with Unreal to the biggest extent I can.
I've worked a lot with Unreal.
Awesome.
Okay, that's pretty straightforward.
Paulina.
Hi, I hope you can hear me because my headphones broke.
Perfect.
So my name is Paulina.
I'm from Poland and I graduated from Academy of Fine Arts and Design last year.
I also did some courses into the animation, mostly.
And there I had also some special effects, like addition.
But it didn't really...
It was, you know, just the addition to all of that.
But I just fell in love with special effects and I really wanted to do that.
And right now I'm working as a 2D animator and motion designer.
So I'm not in the run to find a new job.
But maybe next year I just wanted to specialize in special effects.
We'll see how it goes.
Awesome. That's great.
So you have a lot of background in 2D animator.
You did a part of Goblins too.
You did fine arts.
So do you want to do only 2D or do you also want to do games, VFX?
I'm mostly in 2D.
I just didn't start 3D.
It's not my main focus right now.
But I will see how it goes when I start.
Because I just love 2D.
I'm totally into that.
But I think that 3D animation is not for me.
I just try that and it's...
I don't know what's going on.
It's just not my thing.
But maybe 3D effects.
I started some and it was better.
Okay, perfect.
Awesome. Okay, yeah.
So one thing that's really cool that I will give you...
Obviously, the first four weeks is the thing that you're going to be the most interested in, I think, here.
But the last four weeks is where you're going to be.
And here, you might have some interests that are slightly different than other people.
So if there's anything that you feel...
Oh, you put your finger on one thing that's really cool.
Feel free to send me a message.
I'll try to indicate to you the different things that you can do.
So typically, there's a full set of animation of like a 3D animation.
It's basically just taking lots of flipbooks, lots of 2D animations and putting them together in a kind of creative way, usually using like cards that are put in 3D in different ways.
And that's really fun.
And it might be the thing that you're looking for.
So, yeah.
Oh, thank you.
That's great.
Awesome.
Cool.
We have this Polish delegation so far.
It's perfect.
Yes.
And we're from the same city because I also live in Wrocław.
That's so funny.
Awesome.
Great.
Safer.
Yes.
Hello, everyone.
My name is Wadym.
I am from Ukraine.
And I never worked in a game dev.
Like, I never had an opportunity to do that.
My job is not related to a game dev at all.
But, like, I'm really passionate about it, about game dev.
I used to take, oh my God, I forgot the word.
It's okay.
Don't worry.
Like, I was taking part in game jams a lot.
Yeah, of course.
Working with different people.
And, yeah, I really love to do that.
And I have experience in Unity, Blender, like, as a hobbyist.
And just, like, anything I can say.
Awesome.
Cool.
So your goal is then to get some skills, find a portfolio,
make a portfolio, and then find a job?
Or do you have other, like, objectives?
My main goal, I think, is to learn more about art stuff.
Because, like, as I said, I have some experience in Unity and Blender.
So, like, I don't really have to worry about this stuff.
But, yeah, I really want to learn art.
So your first goal is to learn.
And then after that, you see what you want to do.
Awesome. Yeah, that works.
Cool. Yeah.
And knowing Unity and Blender is, like, going to help you a lot.
Have you ever drawn before?
Yes, but it was not for a long time.
I really burned out a lot.
Okay.
Well, okay.
But burning out is never worth it.
Remember everyone.
And then second.
Yeah.
Cool. No problem.
Then we will start from scratch.
Yeah.
If your goal is just to learn, I think that's the best mindset.
The easiest way to learn is to learn for the joy of learning.
The hardest way to learn is to learn because of who you want to become.
So, yeah, you're in the right mindset at least.
Thank you.
Awesome. Great.
Toph.
My name's Avery.
I'm a student currently in between colleges.
I enrolled in 2018 to Ringling.
I lived down in Stewart, Florida.
I used to live in Sarasota by Ringling.
But unfortunately I suffered from a very long series of, starting with COVID,
just like really bad burnout and failing classes.
And eventually the Board of Academic Affairs kind of like soft banned me from coming back there.
It was pretty rough and I'm kind of ashamed of it.
But right now I originally went for motion design.
I went for motion design.
So I do have some experience with animating specifically in After Effects.
And I do have a lot of illustration experience.
I did pivot over to concept development.
I was told very early, like before I applied,
that like the computer animation industry is like super like kind of hell in terms of maintaining a job.
So that's why I applied for motion instead.
Anyway.
That's true.
I learned about VFX Apprentice through a friend of my mother's whose daughter did a course here and got a certificate
and is now working for Blizzard, I believe.
Yay.
Yeah.
So like I'm taking this class with the hope of expanding my skill set into VFX.
I mostly want to focus.
I'm mostly interested in like stylized Valorant or League style VFX.
And essentially I hope to like by the end of this have all I need to like build a portfolio and, you know,
have a certification under my belt if I don't have, you know, I don't have a bachelor's of arts, unfortunately.
But this like hopefully maybe I can make a career out of this no matter what studio I go to.
Unfortunately, like a lot of you like have put a lot of thought into where specifically you want to work after this.
I need to figure that out.
But otherwise, yeah, that's my prospects.
And I'm also working in my spare time on a multimedia webcomic project with some friends of mine
that I think this course will also help with.
Awesome. That sounds super fun. OK, yeah.
Thanks for like kind of sharing, even if like it seems a bit difficult on this.
I think it's like I'm happy that you're finding new venues, even if it's difficult.
I've struggled with motivation a lot before.
So if you have any questions, I'm happy to try and help with the modest amount that I have.
It's something that I find really interesting. So like feel free to ask.
Thank you.
I'll repeat it. If at any point you feel demotivated, you feel like things are just not going forward, et cetera, or they're not working, like ask me.
I'm happy to try and help to try and find other avenues, other ways to do things, other things that we can do.
I know from experience that the biggest problem I had when I was going to Ringling is the fact that you have to juggle like three to four studio classes and like one to two electives.
And like it's just the amount of workload and having to juggle multiple things that I think contributed the most to my burnout because I'd focus on one class.
I'd fall behind in another class and then I'd have one assignment due that I was behind and then two assignments and three assignments and I just sort of like shut down and like eventually give up after a while just because it was like I need to put in 30 hours of work to make up and it just couldn't focus.
So I think like just having this one class and will be a lot easier for me.
Though if I do end up have struggling a little bit, I will make sure to open up and speak out because that is one thing I learned is that don't keep things to yourself because you're just like shooting yourself in the foot.
Yeah, exactly what I like. I'll repeat that too. If anyone is blocked, don't wait three days. Three days is too much. You already lost a bunch of time like being blocked something.
Just send me a message directly. Like if you're blocked at something, if you feel like things are not moving on.
Yeah, motivation is the most important thing you can have. Like honestly, you can be bad at defects and you can have enough motivation to continue. If at some point you burn your motivation for quick gains, you're never going to get it back and it's going to slow your whole progress.
So just stay motivated and that motivation will show when you do interviews, when you do stuff and that will get you jobs. So whatever you do, just work on your motivation. If you have the option of grinding a little bit more or like saving your motivation, always save your motivation.
As a little outside, I didn't study VFX initially. I wanted to work in art initially. I was like, oh, that would be interesting after high school. And my parents were like, what if you did a job that pays? So I stopped and instead I did engineering.
I did engineering for five years. I did general engineering, studied materials and stuff like that, like physical construction. And then after that, I went into software engineer because there was also a bit of software engineer.
So I ended up doing some software with some big industrial factories. And then after that, I said, and there I learned a bunch of cognitive theory. So basically like how people learn stuff.
And then from there I said, that's it. I did a burnout. I removed, I broke everything. I just spent a whole year kind of like looking for paths.
I found VFX through working in unity, but not wanting to work in defense companies. And then finally said, oh, actually that sounds pretty cool. And I learned that and it took me about six months to, I started working in VFX.
I started trying out VFX and starting to learn in April and I found my job in November. So yeah, just to give you an idea. And then from there, I don't think you need a diploma, an actual diploma to get into VFX. Everyone has their own paths.
Nobody will know.
An old art professor of mine said something very similar that like where you graduate from college doesn't matter as much as just your portfolio and proving that you can do the work regardless of what special badge you have.
Though like, you know, try telling that to my parents who like, we're going to get, you know, we got you into the best art school in the country and we paid thousands of dollars. So don't fuck up.
Well, you can tell them that. I mean, you still learn some stuff. You still like have all those skills.
Yeah, I did learn a lot from there.
In a way you learn to fail too. You learn to take care. You're not coming out of a school with like a giant ego. Like, sure, you can see some negatives, but you can also find some negatives and that can become your personality and your own.
Like it can become not your personality, your person, like what you actually like the profile that you're actually presenting to like to yourself and then to job to job appliances.
I also did learn a lot of fundamentals there, of course, and that's going to help me.
Yeah, exactly. If you burned out, it's probably that you actually learned already a lot to the point that you wanted to succeed and there's a lot of stuff going on.
Just be kind to yourself and in the burnout part, just listen to the science.
I was going to jump off of that and say the same thing. Like, don't let it discourage you if you don't have an art degree or you don't have an art background.
One of the community moderators here, Renata, I interviewed with her and her thing is like insert cat next to her name.
Her background is in like cyber security and stuff. Yeah. And so like she just like have an epiphany kind of like me. It was like, no, I'm going to go do what I want to do.
And so like you don't have to have a degree in this, even like if you go look at the Riot Games employee, you know, list of employees like Riot August and some of them don't have art degrees or game degrees.
So don't let it discourage you.
Yeah, I won't. But you know, it's just like my parents are very conservative and stuck in their ways and like their their impression is like everyone gets a degree and then you get a job.
That's how life works. And if you don't like it, then you're then you're a snowflake.
Yeah, that's really hard. I'm happy to talk more about it if you want about like relationship to parents and do stuff.
Don't worry, it's fine.
Not really about how you're going to talk to your parents, but not really about how you're going to talk to your parents more about like how you can make sure that you protect yourself from that talk for them.
The little voice that's inside you that just tells you, hey, like the parents, what would the parents say? And how you make it your own because like actually the parents all they're looking for is that you actually like become your own thing that you actually decide.
My dad does say, you know, like that the reason why I went to art school is that he's very big on the if you love what you do, then you'll never work a day in your life.
Which, you know, when I was in my burnout era, I kind of started to see art as a job and stopped enjoying it for a while.
And it took me a while to just like be able to sit down and draw for enjoyment after like seeing it as like this looming source of stress.
I've gotten better since then, I will say.
Awesome. Well, that's already like really great to hear that you've got better. You feel like you've you actually learned that far.
I think motivation is really hard. I will tell you that like I think it's not an easy pick. It's not something that you can just like get there. I'm not going to tell you, oh, you'll see it's super easy. You can just get there.
I could totally think you can like from what you told me, you have you have the fundamental. So, yeah, if you ever feel like motivation is waning, just tell me, etc. I will root for you to succeed.
And if you don't succeed, like, I don't think you're going to disappoint anyone. It's just the things. So like, go for it to accept that things are difficult. Move on.
Very well. And enough of my sob story. Let's move on.
Well, yeah, I don't know. I think it's important to talk as long as you feel like talking and at some point, like, yeah.
I wish that when I was in difficulty, like I had someone I was very fortunate to have parents that were okay with like just helping me and like supporting me, at least like they were a bit scared, but they were not like difficult.
So I wish I can perhaps at least like share that voice to other people at least a little bit.
Thank you. Thank you for that.
I think we should all share the fortune that we have in life. We should all share them too.
So next week, you're going to do lots of stuff.
So.
So there is always for each week, you'll find there's always a yes, there's always a page like this that has everything you need to do, basically like all the sort of like sum up of everything you're doing this week.
So this week, so from now on until next month, this is what you're you will be doing. You'll be working on the week lesson. Okay, the week lessons are to get the effects.
They're like little black and white.
The effects that are with the instructor called Sonia. That's super nice. That is really fun. The videos are really nice to like are really enjoyable to watch. They flow very well.
And those are small little effects that every one of them is usually teaching you something different.
I suggest that you try and make as many as possible. The quantity of them is going to be really important. Even if they're not polished, I suggest that you try and never polish.
If you start feeling that you're like just trying to get the edges of that square perfectly in line, try to move to something else. This is not very useful to get the line.
If you look at like on Friday, I'll show you how I animate, and you'll see that the process is messy, but it's okay. The goal what you're looking for is to learn the animation principles, learn the different positions, different things that you can do to learn also the potential.
When you're exploring, you're learning the potential, the things that could happen, and that's the most important.
You'll see those are really fun.
The 2D VFX playbook basically.
Those are all really, really fun exercises.
And then the second one is those two here, which is basically more theory. Those you'll see are also very, very insightful. They'll teach you a lot.
Those you can then come back to kind of watch them yourself.
We were talking about motivation before. What I suggest you do is you try to work on the things that are a bit harder.
For instance, the 2D VFX playbook asks you to work on like actually doing.
So each one of them, each one of those effects you are doing yourself and then like posting them on the forums so that I can see them and give you a feel.
Okay.
If those are hard, if like opening animate is hard and like getting everything started, painting the things, find yourself a bit frustrating at that, just go watch a video. A video is usually easier to watch than the rest.
Just focus, set yourself down. This is still working.
Watching a video, watching like an instructional thing without actually doing yourself is still learning.
So yeah, try to pace yourself perhaps by doing that. That's how I did and it helped me, but everyone is different.
So as an assignment, try to post one of the effects that you did.
So that means for next Monday, try to, before next Monday, about an hour before the live session, try to post for me one of the effects that you made that you're particularly proud of that you found interesting.
If you found interesting, you can work it on the wiggle line warm up exercise, which is a very classic animation exercise or on one of the timing principle lectures or the to the effects playbook.
All three of them are.
All right. So that's, that's the goal here.
For this week on Friday, I'll show you how I animate. I'll show you a little tricks and usually a little take about like 10 to 20 minutes of me doing a little thing and taking questions and etc.
Then from there, that's a good basis for us to start a conversation about little tricks that you can do to work.
Your mic doesn't work, unfortunately.
Now, now, now. Yeah, perfect. Yeah, I think I have a, an empty rambling technology on my, on my headset when I talk too loud too much without anyone talking that just stops it.
It's like, no, Gabby, you've rambled too much. I should disable it for this. I'll find it the options. Anyway, who've angered the spirit. Yes, exactly. The machine spirit is angry. Terrible.
One last thing I want to show you a tool that is very useful.
So, animate will let you export gifts.
If at any point you want to share something with me without like completely exporting everything, you should use the tool called screen to get.
Okay, you type screen to get you just like, like any one of those like that this is just good.
Get up, you can find, yes, but otherwise, I think the base one is this one.
Okay, and this is the tool screen to give.
And this is just really good. So it's a, it's a tool that does this screen to get.
I will show you how it works and that way you can see it.
I will share them changed my share screen.
Change the stream.
Full screen.
So what it looks like is that there's this screen to give tool.
When you, when you start it, you can put it anywhere and then you can say record and it opens a window anywhere.
So I'm going to, for instance, screen to give this, but you can, this can be like your animation running in your to the animation software.
You press this and it just records anything you want.
Then I can pass my mouse over it and then I can stop.
Then from there, it gives me the full frames of everything I'm interested in here.
You can use it to study if you're watching and like a series on your, on your computer.
You can just pocket out, record the section, the section that you're interested in and then look at all the frames and it can be like, oh, there's a nice impact frame or this is really interesting or how did they do this animation, et cetera.
Oh, wow. There's a nice stretch frame here.
Other things you can do is obviously you can just do that and then save that GIF.
And then from there, you can just put that GIF into your forum and that's really fast to get basically feedback fast.
You basically post videos.
So yeah, I recommend you use that in the future.
It's a really good way to share fast what you're working on without having to expert the file, expert the video, post it in and check that it's the right size, et cetera.
Here you can just like delete some frames and then work on it.
All right.
Okay. Is there any other questions before we leave each other? I think, I think we went around with everything.
I have one quick question.
I have a very weak pose when drawing, when I went to like the Harmony introduction, right?
I find it very difficult to like make shapes and everything. They would look like very shaky, even when using like a graphic tablet.
I want to know if there's like any tips or, I mean, I was using the line stretch thing from the pen setting.
I wonder if that's all right or if there's any practice.
I actually like going straight lines and stuff like that.
But I don't know if that's efficient or anything. I've always had like a bad pose.
Yeah, no problem. No, no, that's fair.
So you can do multiple things. You'll see in the class there's like multiple examples.
New file, I'll show you like different options that you have.
So the first thing I suggest you do is that when you use your brush,
you can use either that one or this one as you want. Both of them work.
But there's stabilizer that you can put to the max.
There's often some smoothness that's as an option too.
So I think in this one, there's smoothing. You can put, you see, I use it to 100, for instance,
which basically means that if you have a line that goes around, not white, it will smooth it out.
Like you see, I use my mouse as like really ugly and it's still somewhat smooth.
It completely smooths that out. Even if I like do this, it will still like kind of be smooth.
So I suggest that you use that. On top of that, yeah, you can use pen pressure.
So pen pressure will help you have like lines that look more organic, et cetera.
So there's basically what I'm saying is that there are options here already for that.
Second is that you can also take your whole like shape here.
You can make a big blob, okay, big blob.
And then what you can do is that you can come in with the mouse and start stretching it out around.
So that can also make you pretty precise shapes that you might enjoy if you wanted to.
All right, nice. Thank you so much. Yeah, I was trying with a stabilizer
and I found it a bit better because it was looking like very, very shaky for me.
Awesome. Thank you so much.
Perfect, yeah. Feel free to use those kinds of tools. Those are really useful.
There's no like, it's okay to skip this. It's okay to use tools to like make your job easier.
Your job is to actually make the art in the engine afterwards.
Your job is not to be the best at having the most steady hands.
We're not asking you to have a steady hand.
Your job is never going to be to make the perfect drawing in front of someone.
You're not someone that's making a show on stage.
So yeah, use the tools at your disposal.
And especially when you're learning, try to.
The faster you do a single effect, the more you will learn.
So cut corners where you can.
Thank you, thank you.
Anything else?
I wanted to ask if you know any animation software for iPad, you know, to like do exercises on the couch.
I do. I do if you don't.
Okay, perfect. I don't.
If you, and this is because I've done so much animation and animate during school.
And so I've had the same struggle where I was like, I really wish I could just draw on my couch.
And so a lot of people use procreate, but it's like not really great for animation.
It's kind of like clunky toon squid.
It's ten dollars and you own it forever.
And it has all the same things as animate.
You can tween stuff like there's so many really fun.
You can be the most basic part of animation or you could do some like motion graphics things if you're used to after effects.
But yeah, toon squid is awesome.
They have the same pressure.
You can import Photoshop brushes.
You can make your own brushes.
You can use vector animations like the default for anime, I think, is vector or you can do raster.
But yeah, toon squid, ten dollars.
You own it forever.
I love it.
I can't think it's priceless enough.
I didn't know that.
It's great.
I have it.
It's awesome.
Awesome.
Perfect.
Excellent.
So we have today the boot camp is particularly high skill compared to other camps I've done.
There's more people that are like either industry or have a lot of experience, et cetera, compared to other camps.
I've had camps where it was like Josh, 18 years old, coming in.
I don't know nothing, but I love video games.
Please tell me.
I've had people that come in that are like just like, yeah, I don't really know where I'm going.
I don't know what I'm doing.
I just did that because it was the first thing that I saw the light here.
Please tell me.
So you there's nobody in that case here.
And I think that all of you already have like a significant march up on that.
If one of you feels at some point like, oh, my God, everyone's so much better than me, et cetera.
One, there's a good chance that you don't see the qualities that you have.
And that in particular, there's so many transferable skills for VFX.
And then two, just tell yourself, this is kind of like the skill here.
The skill here is kind of higher.
So compared to other other boot camps.
So yeah, rely a lot.
That's like such a good chance.
Like the third boot camp that I did, we had like someone from Australia that had like incredible knowledge.
That was so good at like lots of stuff that knew so many things.
And that everyone was able to benefit from that because they were able to add so many new information
about the industry that I couldn't necessarily bring or like new ideas of things to do.
And they were available when I wasn't.
So two things.
One, it's really the goal of doing those calls and everyone talking to everyone else is that everyone can participate.
And two, there's a good chance that after the boot camp, if you like talk a little bit, you'll have to perhaps keep in touch
or at least remember, oh, that person was doing that too.
That could be interesting for me.
So yeah, feel free to use everyone else's experience for yourself too.
If you're looking for like, oh, what is it to work in specifically like in UI, like you'll have lots of people there to talk about.
So yeah, just as an extra.
I think the skills of like everybody here is really nice and kind of broad in terms of like the vastness,
like the really, really technical of people who can make shaders and then the people who understand like the basic 2D art stuff.
I think it's nice that we all have something that we can share with each other through this process.
I am expecting that the people that are good at 2D will make incredible stuff and be able to help a lot the others
and the people that are good at tech here will be able to help.
We have also, we have all the, basically the Trinity, like the tech, art and games industry.
We have people that are good at like one of the three.
So we'll be able to like really work well with that.
If anything works well, I'll be able to just sit back and have everyone talk about it.
Who knows?
Anyway, is there other questions before we leave each other?
Oh, I had a question actually.
Do you remember what expansion you were working on when you were working on World of Warcraft doing the raid VFX?
Yeah, I arrived just after, I arrived working on Dragonflight.
Then after that, I worked on Dragonflight on specific different raids and bosses that happened afterwards.
I worked on all the bronze magic, basically.
So the time magic.
I did the whole kit of that.
And then I added lots of bosses here and there.
Then after that, I worked on War Within for a long time.
And there I worked on all the web kits on all the different things for the first dungeon.
Then I worked on a lot of raids for that.
And then I stopped working there as they were coming into the goblin raid kind of thing or dungeon.
I don't know if there was a raid.
But yeah, that's what I did.
That's really cool.
I'm not super into World of Warcraft.
My friend is, and he thought it was really cool.
He wanted me to ask you about it.
I know someone was saying that they were doing mods for BattleScape 3.
My colleague with whom I work right now worked previously for BattleScape 3.
Oh, that's cool.
Yeah, living in studios is dope.
Yeah, basically someone was talking about Warframe 2.
Yeah, that was me.
I'm super new.
Oh, that's so cool.
That's funny.
It's a very small industry.
What I suggest to any one of you, for any one of you, what I suggest you do is never badmouth anyone,
because you'll see that very quickly.
If you don't like someone, just don't talk to them.
Don't badmouth them, because it's very quickly.
You're just like, oh, you work on that?
Oh, yeah, I know that person, that person, that person.
And it's very awkward very quickly.
It's very small.
It's very small.
It's tiny.
OK, any other questions?
All right.
In that case, if you have any other questions that comes up afterwards,
feel free to send me a message.
The recording will be available so that you can just come back to anything that was said.
If you struggle with something that happened, send me a message.
Don't stay stuck.
Don't stay stuck.
Stay stuck.
And yeah, otherwise, I will see you all on Friday.
Have a good one.
See you on Friday.
I'm so glad to be with you all.
Thank you.
Thank you for your time.
Thank you.
I like meeting you all.
