Hi, everyone. Hello. Hello. Welcome. Hello. Hi. Perfect. How has it been so far? I saw a lot of people's work. Awesome. Yes. It was really fun. I'm very proud of my work. Yeah, I think you can. Yeah, you should be. I'm impressed, honestly. This group is probably the highest skilled group that I've had so far, so I'm quite impressed. Let's go. Nice job, everyone. And yeah, I'm happy also. I saw a lot of you all played out super well. The forum posts, you all posted a lot, so that means I have a really good idea of where everyone is so far. It's been great. So I think we're on to a good start. I saw a lot of people that the Wiggle line did some of you already start on the Playbook, on the 2D VFX Playbook? Yeah, I started doing a few of the... I already had full access, so I'd already done some of the homework and stuff. I wanted to do it again, but maybe try to be a little different about it. I didn't want to just resubmit my old work. Sure, yeah, that makes sense. Yeah, it makes sense to go back to it. Yeah, there's a bunch of content on this week, so feel free to do whatever is fun for you, whatever you find interesting. Some of the exercises are better to just train and do repetition. Some of the exercises are better for discovering and finding out new stuff. This class goes from professional animators that want to learn 3D to people that have never seen 2D VFX, so obviously some things are different. I can't hear or see you guys. Let's hope. Fingers crossed. I've been enjoying it. I haven't done too much of the VFX Playbook yet. I was watching the timing principles videos, and in one of them I posted it just like probably like 20 minutes ago. It's very recent. But I saw the timing chart example, and it was like three images, and I was like, oh, I want to know if I can create that animation based off of the information provided, and I can flush it out. And so I attempted to try and bring that image to life. Awesome. Yeah, that's really cool. I think it's a good exercise to do. I find it, copying something that you see, trying to reproduce something that you see, is just a really good example, because you can see the final result. Or at least you can see you already have some of the tools of the intent that was given, so you have a platform on which to then learn new skills. I find that you're doubly learning, because you're learning from what has been created before free. You're finding out new stuff that was already put in there, and you're also learning because you're just... And I think that's a really good idea. That's why I often say fan art, figure that, is just incredible for learning. You learn so much by that, because you're forced to study your constraint. Awesome. Yeah, I was really impressed by everyone's work. I tried to answer most people, if there's anyone that has where I missed any questions, as usual, I repeat it, but feel free to send me a message. Yeah, I'll do another pass, perhaps, tomorrow, something like that. So far, so good. Yeah, go for it. Let's go. Is the channel for the week one going to remain open? Because I feel like on the upcoming weeks, and maybe even after, I will come back to it at some point and do some exercises again, really having a lot of fun with these 2D things. Sure. So how's it work? It will stay open, but I will not be actively monitoring it, checking what's missing, etc., and giving feedback on it. That said, if you do a big batch on week one, and then you want to send me a message in private messages and say, hey, I've updated this, if you can pass by and give me some feedback, of course, I'll give you no problem at all. But in terms of attention span, I will not be checking it all the time. It's a bunch to look at at the same time. So yeah, as a rule of thumb, every week on Monday, we kind of shift next week, there's going to be another forum that comes up, and I'm going to completely move to the next week. So I won't be looking at the first week's messages. They'll all be there so that you can read through them and get an idea of where you're going afterwards. I will reference them in the past sometimes just to have an idea of what happened that week or just to remember who missed one week, for instance, or who didn't post anything on one week so that I can have a better idea of where everyone is. But I will rarely come back to it. So if you repost that there, I will see it. Just because how many notifications are. So yeah, today, the goal is mostly to answer your questions because you were, you seem to, like a lot of you seem to have a lot of questions last time. So I'm going to take extra time to answer questions and go down rabbit holes. If there's any rabbit hole that you want to talk about, be it motivation, which we talked about quite a bit last time, industry, portfolio, like the different timelines, a bunch of you mentioned that you had like specific timelines to get to. We can talk about animation, animation principles specifically. I've mentioned a few of them here, but I can also give you either some resources or I can demonstrate some stuff I have animated. I can just go through that and get like, try to demonstrate anything that you'd be interested in. And we can talk about 3D effects too, if there's anything that you're interested in or if you want to analyze something, for instance, either from like what I did sometimes in those campfires was taking like an animation from a famous show or famous game and kind of break it down to explain why it works, what's interesting in it. So yeah, if there's anything that's interesting or any questions that you'd have, we can start with that and then just like keep going. And if at any point there's nothing else that comes up, I'll, I have a backup plan. All right, does anyone have a question? Does everyone have something they want to start with? So on week four, I'm looking at like the stuff that's coming up. It looks like week four is advanced 2D techniques. Are we going to be learning how to implement a flip book in say like Unreal? Yes. Okay. Yes. The reason I was asking is... As soon as possible, but it would not be on week four. It won't be. Yeah, it will be after. Okay. I have a concept art that I made and I really want to turn it into effect, but I don't know if I want to turn it into like a 2D flip book effect or if I want to like try and use Niagara particles to try and make it or like a fusion of both of those. So, okay. That's a really good question to start with. So you can use whatever you want, obviously. The famous saying is, and I don't know if you've seen this like Riot video from like that explains what VFX is. It's pretty fun as a video. But basically you can do the thing in many different ways. You can do it as a 2D, pure 2D sprite. You can do it with like combinations. You can do it with only particle systems. Like there's everything works. Stylized games in general. Chris, I remember that you talked about like you talked a bit about stylized workflows. Stylized games in general, they either use full particle or they have two kind of modes. They will either use what's called the volumetric approach, which is basically you make volumes using meshes that you then like texture. And then from there you dress it up with particle systems. And so you'd have, for instance, I don't know, like a donut on which you put some flamey shapes. Okay. And then you duplicate the donut three times. You give it transparency. You give it a little bit of a wobble motion with some vector movement. Then you add some particles on top of it, some smoke, sprite sheets behind it, et cetera. And that will kind of like dress it up basically. So you start with the shape and then you do it. That's the first technique. And then the second technique that you'll find is you make a really cool 2D sprite sheet that like looks good. Like you make a nice effect that's kind of the start of it. And then from there, after that, you just dress it up. So you start with your sprite sheet that gives you both timing, the motion that has like a focal point that is good. That kind of have like, you could leave it just a sprite sheet and it would kind of work, just a flip book and it would kind of work. And then after that you dress it up with like some glows and some smokes and some extra little sparks. Do you want me to post it in like the live chat so you can see what I'm talking about? Yeah. Yeah. Because I've seen other people break down, even on like LinkedIn stuff, where they'll break down like the trail effect and like the sparkles. And I'm like, okay, I have all this separated in a Photoshop file. It's possible to do that. Let's see. Let's see. Upload file. Okay. So this is like a lightning effect. Of course, I think it would need to be more simplified for an actual effect. So this is just a still frame so far? Yes. Yeah. It's just a still image in Photoshop. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. So you have mostly, so far what you have defined is mostly that you want to color palette and you have like this kind of like the texture, let's call it, of your lightning. I'm going to share my screen that way everyone has access to. So you have a color palette, which is this purple that has like stark lighting. On top of that, you have this like lightning that feels really powerful with those halo effects that I think are quite defining in what you want to do. You have two types of lightning. There's white lightning that's really rough, that feels really violent. And this black, small, what we call usually noodle lightning that is more subtle with some extra like smaller shapes here and there. And you have like combinations of clothes otherwise. So in my opinion, this could go in many different ways. This could be like a radial explosion. This could be a one-time like vertical blast. This could have a lot of different things. It could even technically be like projectile or sort of hit effect with this kind of round halo. So what I suggest you do is what you were talking just before about basically make three frames of it instead of one frame. Just define three frames of it. So you start with like, what does it look when the lightning is perhaps like accumulating? Like is there like some little sparks that are happening somewhere? Is there like a orbital strike kind of like targeting laser? Is there, I don't know, like what's what's is there is the clouds like are the clouds kind of like condensing with some clear glow inside that is building up? So what's the buildup? Then that's obviously your release. And then what's the aftermath look like? Is this does the smoke stay there? Does it still is there still some reminiscing glow inside the smoke at the end? Do you have little sparks in the air? What do you want to do with that light specifically this blue light here that's really striking? Is it something to keep at the end? All those things. What I suggest you do if you want to turn a 2D image directly into a spreadsheet is the first three frames. Then what I would do if I was going to put like if I was going to put this and really just make it like a strike and then nothing else happens in game. What I would do here is I would make a flip book that's this giant white part. Then I would do a flip book that is those black small ones that's probably one for each and then I would put onto a mesh, like one mesh that would be like just a long long cloud. And then after that I would make one, like I would do the smoke I would almost always make in particles. It's just way easier. And and the glow same thing. So overall you would make a part a flip book only with the zaps and the like the small zaps and the big zaps. But you could do it in it with like many ways. One thing that's a bit dangerous with this is that your lightning is both very detailed and very big. It goes so far. And so one of the issues you'll have here is that the size if you if it's a flip book the size of the texture that you need is going to be massive. Because like let's say you want to do nine frames or 16 frames. So that means that you need a like you need 60 you need a four by four image basically. And so then if you want the detail to be kind of high you need like a like 1k texture perhaps or even 512 texture at least. Like you that means that it's at the minimum a 2k to a 4k texture. That's usually off budget of most games. 2k is kind of like the higher limit and usually you have one or two. And that's just because of aesthetics. It's just like otherwise it will not physically work. So oftentimes what I will do is that this part the big white part here the big arc like that or those arcs I will make them into their own thing. For instance like their own quads or their own shapes. And then this detailed part that's in the middle here that kind of like really has this like those small elements. I'll make it into its own flip book. That way I have the strike itself and then I have the arcs. And then what you do is that you just blend them together by making them exactly the same color. And you to make the glow behind either you use some glow. If you're not too into like you don't need a lot of control over the final result in game. Or if you need a lot of control on the color there's other options like for instance you can duplicate. You can make a first flip book and then you make a second flip book that is only the glow. That's just behind your first one. So you layer things. All right I hope I didn't I went through a lot of details. I don't know if I lost you on this. No no I've done some unreal stuff as well. So I'm like trying to like reference it into. So you know that makes a lot of sense. So thank you. Yeah awesome. I can show you this. I think this will help. Though I have a I had the Twitter for a long time that I don't use anymore. But I don't use much anymore apart from like just showing stuff. I would like to use it more but I don't. But I made a lot of tutorials on it before. And so I'll post in the book contract. I'll post an extra like one of the effects that I made. And if you scroll just under that there is a basically there's the example of what it is without the dress up. That way you have a bit of an idea of what it looks like with the dress up and without the dress up. And that way you can like kind of imagine what I mean by dressing up an effect after making the flip book. That's really cool. It's a it's a good exercise to kind of think. Okay what needs to what how am I going to build everything. So like let's say you find an image or you find some references like for instance if like I have an artist called the Ruequin Cobalt that I find pretty cool for training. They do VFX concept. That's like really fun to follow. Posted here. And what they do is you can check that and they have lots of concepts. Concept art for VFX. I think they had more before. You have to scroll a little bit lower but they do basically like concept sheets for VFX. And so you can just pick those up and just think okay like there's way more if you go like kind of like down in time back in time. But yeah there's like really cool stuff there and it's really fun to see what they do. And then you can just pick those up and kind of think okay like how would I make that in game. And that's really a really good exercise to like I don't know this one. Like this is the kind of stuff that he does. And so you have all those sheets, those character sheets for like just that. Until you can kind of think yourself okay like those this is three frames. The first frame is like a charge up with a little flare. The second frame has this like big slash. So how would I make this? Would I make every single brand like every single claw of the slash in its own like as its own thing? Or would I like make one mesh that does the three slashes? That's a good exercise to have in general. So is it pretty normal? Well in this maybe this is like a it depends question. But is it got a normal in a pipeline situation for you know you the VFX artist to get the concept art from somebody so you didn't make it yourself and you're having to like bring it to life? Or is it sometimes both? It's oftentimes it's my job to do everything. To do everything okay. It's very rare and when it actually happens that I get to choose it's usually very like cool that to have a concept artist. So most of the time character artists will make a concept and then I have to invent what the idea of that character is. Like for instance recently I worked on a character just like a sort of like the aesthetic is kind of like a gamer girl hacker that has a bazooka. Okay sure. And so like I had to decide like I had no instructions on what that the bazooka was apart from like the 3D model. I had no idea if it was like it shoots actual missiles, if it shoots electric stuff, if it's like what does it do? Like I knew that the design because usually you have like 3D model, you have the character concept art and then you have the design. You're given like usually the abilities what they do or what the character can gain basically which the designers have already done. And so at that point you have to decide yourself okay is what's going to be the color palette what matches the best. So you have to do some research to kind of find out okay what this work with. So I decided for instance that that would be since this is a bit playful and it has a bit of the cyber vibe then what I'm going to do is I'm going to go with some little kind of colors to kind of go more onto the techie side and I'm going to try to make it more techie with a bit of hologram stuff etc but at the same time keep it very zappy with like lots of what you would imagine is the when you see the cartoon when someone smashes a computer thing and the lightning comes out of it that was my reference basically all the whole thing. And so by having culture on like how things are usually represented in animation the more cultured you are and the more you know how to where to reference different things the more you'll be able to just pull that up and be like okay this is what I'm going to go for. I have worked on Valorant specifically I have worked with a concept artist and it was like incredible it was the best the best experience possible because concept artists will you I can just come up and say hey like the character does this at some point and I don't have a concept and then he's just going to work for two to two to three days and then come back and give me something that's incredible and I can just work with them. That's really fun to do and it also means that you get to experience characters in a different way like constraint really breeds creativity all the time and so suddenly you're not just it frees yourself it frees a bit of your brain basically to work on so yeah but it's very rare I have very rarely had that. The other thing that can happen is that design has not actually decided what the abilities of the character are that did happen on wow a bit where design was just like we don't know so you know what VFX artists make make something cool and then after that we'll decide we'll pick the ones that we that spark something and then we'll make a design but that's you never build before the design exists you always build on top of the design that we build. Does that answer your question? Yes yeah yeah I was reading the comment four to five times over eight years that's crazy. Yeah yeah yeah I mean that that doesn't that doesn't surprise me just um Yasha. Yasha I know how to pronounce it I will like I'll get it I think next week No but I won't it's fun anyway uh anyone has follow-up questions on this or wants to open up yeah I do um I want to talk about the the time inside of it like so I understand like we kind of divide it into like people who are specifically for 2D and people are interested more they work more on the engine side I am the one of the who interested more on the engine side so I'm interested in the timing part like how what is the workflow workflow to time the effect like in so for example in today they do like in a traditional way I mean I don't know they use a time in charge or something and so like straight ahead animation until they feel it's right do you do a similar approach you like tweak numbers in the engine until like you feel this is how it should look like or how do you approach usually the yeah yeah that's a good question so you're talking about workflow specifically not the actual technical part right you're talking about like what's my approach when I'm in engine yeah yeah yeah yeah okay so um in engine I can show you over there I'm gonna open it um so in engine when you want to work uh what I do almost all the time and this is I think my workflow I don't think it's like specifically like everyone does that but I know that I do that a lot I always start with a 2d mock-up so I will basically go in animate or whatever other 2d software and then I will just go deep into the the animation to try and make sure that I have the perfect timing like I have the timing right and then I'll make something really rough but not only focus on the timing and kind of the silhouette and then from there once I'm happy with that I will import it into the game into the game and then I'll use that as a as a way to kind of like make sure that my timing is because in engine it's actually quite difficult to tweak timing in a in a satisfying manner I find um that said uh just big medium small always works start with their bigger shapes start with your volumes start with the things that are kind of like large and then go down to more detail if you already add all the little sparks that are like going to move everywhere and then you have to re-time everything it's going to be a nightmare so um start with the most important parts the things that you think will define your timing and then work from there the other thing that you can do in the engine is start with the impact the vfx for games in particular have always like one very very clear impact one moment where everything happens and so what you can do is you can just start with the impact and then from there once the impact happens you can uh move on to to the rest you can start building the anticipation and then you can start building the the follow through about starting with the impact gives you a good idea of like where where what's what's your target so uh so yeah so you pick up like the core shape or the core like animation and you kind of use it as a reference and because i understand like in in vfx there's like a layers of like you add sparkles on top so there's a tons of layers that each one of them they have their own animation so you basically base on the core shape or the core silhouette or and use it as a reference and then you can tweak later right yeah let me just um i think i i don't just say that they have to leave like very soon i'm just going to pick that up quickly um i will ask how to design textures that adapt to the style like let's say some time some thing like hey this or this door okay um like soul fighters can land for illegal legends um to make textures in general that aligns to uh a style in particular uh textures are really just a tool you can tweak them in so many ways there's no uh uh the textures will not be really the thing that that really decide the style i would say um it's very rare at least that like you will design textures specifically in one style uh the only thing that would be different is if you're losing color textures which is very rare or but it's possible it's just quite it's not very common textures in vfx or if you're using textures that dissolve textures that are very specific um um otherwise basically technical textures that don't actually represent something that you will see on in the game so yeah uh so yeah uh usually if you have like a look that looks very specific it's either because the flip books it's using like very very like striking flip books that have either hard edge and very smooth motion or stuff like that if for to get to get to take the examples that you gave or um or they have post-processing or they have specific techniques to try and mimic a art style but not the texture itself that will mimic that art style i hope that helped um yeah so sorry Haytan we can we can come back to that so you were asking specifically um when i put things in engine how do i how how do i manage to make sure that they're well timed can you repeat the the end of your question there uh yeah so uh what i was saying so uh you said like you kind of focus on one like the the main motion which is usually within like the biggest shape or the biggest thing that you're trying to animate uh so i said also that like there's a lot of components to to build in an effect that's you know so there's like like you said there's sparks in there there's a build of i don't know shadow or something so so how so how do you work with those elements as well like so do you base your entire timing on that specific big uh motion or so yeah so that's kind of like yeah that's a good question so what i do is i build one of each so there's this concept in 3D VFX called layering which is basically uh let's say i want to make a cloud and a big like i'm going to use a big donut to make a cloud well i'm going to make a first like core of the cloud that's like a kind of opaque and then after that i'm going to add more donuts on top of it that are slightly bigger or that move in a slightly different way or that have like different that basically i'll add more techniques on top of it and that is called layering um you're basically adding more of the same until to to to enhance the illusion basically to enhance the to not to make it so that especially usually geometry but not necessarily uh is is kind of invisible so what you want to do is you want to build your effect without any layering so basically like just you have a core in the center it's even perhaps not even textured it's just there you just put the core in the center of the the clouds there and you would just animate so that it expands the shape kind of moves in a way and then around it you add like if there's a little lightning that's supposed to arrive at some point inside it you add the lightning you add basically the the the bones if you want the effect you have you add like just a very very core components and then once you're happy with the the this motion then you can start uh dressing it up you can start layering it so that's what i would do and i have worked i know some people that have their workflow is that they just take cubes and they just animate cubes to like show kind of the volume the composition of what they're imagining and then once they're happy with the cubes they just replace it with actual effects um yep that makes sense yeah yeah i can show you something else uh that i did in the past could be interesting too when i made the uh this i made a big uh a big effect trying to find where could it be where could it be that's the egg this this yeah i don't think i can open it not helping this don't have a gift probably anyway i know how to do easy i can just go into it once again so um i often make like a little like sketch like this to tell myself okay like this is what i'm gonna do this is the timing i want to respect and so i'll draw it more or less the more detail i need the more i will do but like as you can see it like it's it's very rough usually like it's basically like monocolor kind of splash usually like i don't really care about it looking good care about the it looking good the goal is that the timing is where i want it basically and then from there once i'm happy with the timing i'll use this as a reference i'll look at the once it feels good you can go into the technicalities of it and look at the time that everything spent and then you can make the the the final the final animation once you're done yeah yeah this makes sense okay this is a great example yeah thank you that's something i use quite a lot and yeah i have a ton of like just small how's it called smaller small little animatics that i use can i show you more text files text do i have more on hand not really it's fine yeah i'll make basically i'll make small small changes i can show you a few uh share screen change the stream full screen this one uh yeah like i make like small effects like this and that gives me then then this i either imported directly in game or this gives me like the timing that i want to work with uh i can show you a few extra ones like this is the kind of like stuff like this one is a bit more more confusing but yeah i can i can usually work with that afterwards i see so you do this for all the kind of like uh layers yeah oh this one is a good example like i just like okay i do this and i know this is what i want to do zap zap zap and so then i will import that and i will put it in game and i will say okay like from there i can work without do i have what i want so yeah uh do i have other examples uh yeah this is the kind of stuff i would like if i wanted to like work on my timing i usually do that kind of stuff it's like like quite simple but it's it usually does the job too i guess it's not looping uh oh yeah this one this one i made into an engine afterwards like it's basically just like plastic stuff those are quite old but they're still they still did the trick it's just to explain the the detail of it anyway yeah i hope that gives you a little idea of like where we go all right anyone else any any other question with what we've what i've shown so far i have a couple questions sure let's go if i may uh okay so it's mostly related to like 2d animations because that's what was in the course so far so uh your first question was uh do you use like masks a lot when you animate in 2d like for example like you would have a larger shape on a layer that that would animate in one way and then like for example the disintegration is animated on on a mask that masks the the main layer because in the tutorials the the instructors were mainly like just uh drawing everything straight ahead but uh so i either draw straight i i rarely use mask is the short answer to that um i usually draw with like uh keyframing that's that's the main way i will draw things uh i'll always start with the frame that's the most important and then i'll build from there i usually start with extremely low frame rate with like three or four frames and then i will space them out in the way that i want them to and i'll slowly build like in between until i'm happy with it um sometimes i do uh guides and then from there so um sometimes i'll do like i'll i'll very often do guides it's not just some i'll do a lot of a lot of guides so for instance if i come in here and i start making like because i closed it to open the other one so if i start like here i'll usually make a first guide just like battle my setup yeah so what i'll do is that i'll usually do a guide from there the guide i'll say okay i want my guides to be they all do it i'll make it a rectangle this i'll those filled out zero zero uh 40 i think which did i put it and then um from there i usually put a bit less i'll just so this is not a layer this is the background it's fine okay what i'll do usually is i'll just go to brushing i'll make so they're just max smoothing blah blah this great this is going to be a guide now what i'll do is i'll say okay i want to do like let's say um a spin here and then i'll do this like that and then i'll do like one one extra line here that's like okay i like i don't know this one for instance and then i'll say okay i'll make a little cross the place where i want things to happen and then i'll make an extra little circle because i think this this will look good like this or something like that and then i'll say actually i don't know like i want an extra circle like around this so usually i i dot it around so that i can still use it to make and then i'll i don't know i'll just let's say that this is enough so then i'll stop doing that i'll lock the guide move around then i'll come here usually what i do is that i guide i say that actually this layer i change the transparency if i can anyway i i move it around usually it's like it takes out anyway i don't remember and i take another color usually just slightly higher so that i can work with it and then i'll start animating basically so this i'll give it like 16 frames for instance okay from there i'll say okay actually i want like a little ball to start here right i want a little block to start here and then the next frame i'll say okay like at this frame i want my little ball at this frame i want my little ball to be kind of big i want the the place to like add a little like i want i want to like let's say a blast that's contained inside this circle okay this is the thing i want and i want also like a little halo around it because i want to feel quite impactful probably here like you could work on anything else this is my frame then i want like a one last frame here say where i say where i say uh here this is like i want some remains that are still at the edges of it i want some uh like a vertical motion that is like escaping there and then here on this one i'll add an extra like like kind of beam smiting effect here and then in the middle of this probably at some point i'll say actually here i want some swirls to come in so i want the swirls to be like kind of here following the lines following the lines here following the lines here and then this that's that's it okay and so then i play that so then it it does the thing and then i will adapt the the timing to that so i'll move it around i'll move my frames around um did that answer do you have extra follow-up questions uh i mean yeah the question was more about like cutting out shapes from larger shapes but yeah i guess if if you do it just uh sorry i had some issues with the headset yeah i was saying that the question was more about like cutting out shapes with masks from larger shapes but i guess if if you just do it manually that i think that answers that yeah no i never use masks yeah you're correct yeah um i think that if you know how to use masks and if it's something that is in your workflow you should 100 try and implement it um every single vfx artist i know uses tricks that other nobody else knows like like honestly everyone just has their own like pet thing um i know someone that's like an accountant that was an accountant before and now is a vfx artist like a really good vfx artist and one thing that she does is that like she's just is capable of keeping like massive spreadsheets of a lot of different files and references that she has and that's like something that she says directly that she like got from her previous job and now like it's something that gives her like a massive edge i we had a student a year and a half ago i think or two years ago that was a like that did jewelry before and that so had tons of skills and principles that came from jewelry they were really useful useful and that nobody else was able to to ever kind of like imagine so or use so what i recommend is that if you are used to using specific tools or specific workflows uh implement them into your your your skill sets yeah so um i don't use masking because i don't need it that's the main reason is that uh 2d animation for me is both a sketching moment and also a moment where i can build kind of the core imagine the luminous core of like an effect that's that's why i build with it but i know some people that make incredible dfx and then use that as like everything that they do kind of thing and they also i also know some people that do incredible 2d effects and then use those as details they're going to make a big mesh then they're used they'll use it as like a detail let's say for instance you want to create a vfx that's like a big wall okay a big wall of of of energy then you can use uh super detailed like like let's say crackling energy the effects that you you've made before to add some detail to what is otherwise quite a plain surface so it adds a lot of interesting secondary motion which is oftentimes the hardest part in dfx to add like this this this kind of like intricate secondary motion that is not just um that doesn't feel just generated basically but that's actually like compelling it creates a fascination a a um yeah does that answer your question yeah yeah uh so i have a couple more questions but i don't want to like take up anyone has another question otherwise i was just going to follow up and say that um um your your question i think lends more towards like um my understanding of like uh after effects like a lot of people who make effects and after effects will use like shapes and mask those out to create like motion graphic effects um and there are people who create like vfx type effects in that way um not for i don't think for for game engines but like um yeah for if you if you like doing that you probably could try some after effects but i'll add that the concept of masking is really important in 3dfx usually what you do is that you actually mask an engine so i think that's why i don't do it there is that actually masking happens all the time like masking is one of the core principles of like uh doing 3dfx especially in the shaders especially in the materials and so um you will need the comp the skill to know what needs to be masked or not and and where to mask things that's a really really good skill to have but it's useful afterwards in the process usually um obviously if things are pre-masked it's probably useful but yeah most of the time you're not going to do this kind of like composition thing before we'll see that in week seven uh the masking part it's it's part of it so but and if you have any questions before that if you think that's a part of your your initial workflow that you're interested in yeah it's it works exactly the same as what you would imagine for masking hey it's basically just you take you say hey you make a black and white image you say hey everything that's white i wanted to actually be included in whatever i'm doing everything that's black i don't want that that does make sense yeah uh the other question i had is like do you ever like record a rhythm for your vfx like for example you know you make noses with your mouth or tapping on the desk and just record them and then match the timing to that so i rarely record the the motion but i do i do noises with my mouth yes all the time i think it's actually a really good skill to kind of like learn how to do voices with your mouth and how to like learn new sounds honestly sometimes i learn a new sound that i can make and now i actually know how to make something new vfx so yeah um i think it's a really good skill to to kind of like work on and yeah um it it's fun to do people look at you weird but i guess i guess it's necessary uh that's that's when you know you're having fun is when people look at you weird then you're still having fun um but yeah i never recorded myself i think mostly because i just don't have the right tools to record in my workflow like if i record with my phone it's not very useful for me i rarely have a tool to implement it directly in in the engine so that it plays at the same time so yeah but i think actually if i had a tool in engine that let me directly record my voice and then played every time i played like was synced with my effect i would probably use that that's actually really smart so one thing that's really fun uh my partner is the the the person who makes the tools to make vfx in the gudot engine it's the actual developer for the uh the the the vfx uh tool the particle system and so i can ask that i think that's a fun idea i think that sounds really fun i think i think i would have more fun every day if i was making weird noises and then actually when i would hear my weird noises play every time i played i pressed play anyway and then you forget to replace the place holder and it goes out to production that sounds so funny i think that would put a lot of smile on people that should be like a mode in some games you know yes you only get that would be very fun yeah as a to extend the question i suggest that everyone like tries to have fun with like that just find either like if you expect you made or effects that you see other people make and try to like force yourself to think oh like i'm trying to try and to make the sounds with my mouth with my mouth and see if it works and that's a really good exercise and it will help you then afterwards when you're in front of your screen and you don't really know what the timing is you can just make the sounds until it like is melodious until it sounds kind of good or until you feel kind of the impact and oftentimes what it helps with me with specifically is exaggerating as in like if i do the sound the first time and i tell myself oh no it needs more punch and so i can just add more punch the voice voices are just made to add the emotion into it and so that's a really really good medium to extract that emotion and put it into your video and my last question was like do you ever use the like the blur effects or stuff like that in your 2d animation software or is that done on only like later in 3d really good question yes i do usually i do actually i do all my effects in vector and animate and then after that i export them into i export them into the spreadsheet and i export them into photoshop to add the different lures or to do some edits on some things that i want specifically and then after that i put them in the game usually what i add is the magical outer glow which is a very very commonly used effect that's in photoshop that will will help a lot glowing things in engine is like a total topic we'll have some time to talk to like talk about it more afterwards because it has pros and cons but basically it's very the thing i wanted to get to is it's very often that we want to add an actual glow onto the texture so you can either you can do it in any software but that's actually very common the blur effect i use it only if i only if i want things to be really smooth on like to dissolve texture or something like that but usually i will embrace impurities on my textures i think that like things look slightly better if they're not like perfect for me so that's usually what i do but um i think blur i i use blur from time to time not always but i use different time i will if i need to erase like some extra details i will actually smudge them more often to kind of keep the intent the motion alive rather than blur them so you just go to the different frames and you blur on it like you kind of figure out that like if it's blurred here then on the next frame it would be blurred in slightly another place yeah yeah um i would say that uh i do use blur quite often that you say to uh indicate motion especially when i want to direct the eye to a specific place i'll blur the i'll basically use contrast between edge sharpness so you are smooth edge and hard edge um that i find that really effective for vfx since your effect will be small on screen and so you need like readability is really really key so especially if the motion is kind of fast it's really important to have that so that helps a lot for like let's say i'm making a ribbon that just spinning around like a line like the line experiment like the line of exercises that you've done so far uh that's a really good moment where you want to blur the person the part that's back and keep the sharpness on the the front part of your little ribbon that's that's my biggest use case of blur uh and then outer glow is obviously the one that i use the most i think it's really useful i think it takes a bit of time to use too i actually do do use outer glow since textures are mostly black and white i use outer glow sometimes uh with like 100% uh on a like just sharp shape to actually make it fuzzy towards the outside since if you give the same color and you make it 100% opacity it actually just gives a fallout so that makes the shapes a bit softer if you want something that looks less aggressive on screen also if you have pixels that go from zero to one all the time sometimes you get some artifacts if the texture size is too big so there you're happy to have either some blur or some stuff like that just to get the compression so yeah like for instance like on this like if i had like those little lines like this those those are are terrible or not allowed those will not look good if they're super sharp but if they're a bit blurry then they'll be fine any other question anything else that people have on their mind i have a question i don't know if it's yeah go for it related to this like the first class i think it's learned going forward and it's how to build textures based on like the art style you are following like if i want to i wouldn't say replicate but aim for a like hey this or maybe like the soul fighter skin line from league i really like how it looks like those sharp shapes is purely based on studying textures and managing like the gray scales or how do you achieve that kind of tunish and like very pretty stylized effects yeah so i you were probably already gone unfortunately when i tried to answer your question in chat yeah it's completely fine thanks for bringing it back so basically how you want to do that is the following it's rarely in the texture the textures themselves they're mostly painted stuff at best they will make things look a bit sharper or a bit more like they will they will look different but they will that will not give you the style the style usually comes from post-processing from specific techniques that you're using for instance like for what you're talking about here it comes a lot from outlines which will help a lot it will also come from the colors that you use the sharpness of the edges and then the different like here particular for what you're talking about the flip books like flip books are a big part of it so you would need to have like solid 2d animation that supports the rest of your effect and then i think in general for everything you said all those effects are extremely colorful so it's a lot of color theory and composition that will help you make make it make sense and that will give that style there's no one way to duplicate a specific style i would say that in general i i like duplicating styles i find it very fun and i would say that throughout the my conclusion is for every style there's you have to think out of the box think about anything some styles are easy to replicate some styles are really hard to replicate for instance if you want to replicate like a comic book style it can actually be quite hard because they have very thick outlines and outlines are kind of a nightmare in 3d the cell shading parts usually ask you to like know how to make really complex shaders etc if you want to replicate let's say anime effects anime effects will have a lot of glows they'll have a lot of post-processing on top of them at least modern ones if you want to go further back in time then you know how to do like textures on top of it but that's that's fine anyway they'll ask you to have like also like solid flipbooks but not in the same way at all as usually in anime effects you will need a lot of round shapes a lot of glows a lot of sparks a lot of layers and in general a lot of it is on the timing rather than on the colors or on the the smoothness of the of the flipbooks i could go on but basically you have to analyze it and then use so many tools at your disposal in order to make it work it goes a lot through the timing the animation principles but also through just technical things and because 2d 3d effects is its own like games effects is its own medium and so in order to replicate something that is somewhere else you have to cut corners you have to like do a lot of things so that can be really complicated so that's the long answer the short answer is it's not really about the texture rarely about the texture actually it's mostly about very specific techniques that you and you need to study the thing that you're looking so for instance yeah thank you for the answer that actually feels way better because if i can kind of get around it with like math and stuff like that i'm not really like a very good drawer so it's a bit of peace of mind thank you so much for the answer awesome yeah also um well i'll add this to that um some styles are executable or easier to execute because they um cut corners for instance hades since you have the camera that always comes from the same angle the same direction and um the lighting in hades is very controlled uh every environment is mostly damp almost dark there's a vignette effect on almost all the time it's subtle but it exists the composition makes it so that you have a lot of control over what you're going to do i can make a flipbook that's a 80 like a 60 degree angle from the top that just looks exactly like that with all the perspective etc and i don't need to think about it in 3d for instance and that's very useful whereas if i make an effect for i don't know lego legend for instance i need to still think of the volumes think of the 3d etc even if like there are some things that i don't have to think about um i see thank you so much for the question yeah of course is there like a site that's uh kind of catalogs the vfx like like vfx reference from different games awesome like sakugaburu yeah no there's no none of that i i reference they very often reference um to the animation rather than reference actual games because i find that games oftentimes reference other media more than reference themselves but um i don't know like youtube is usually the place where i find most of the references i'm looking um uh each game has its own resource unfortunately there's no like really good like just hub um a place where you can find a lot of breakdowns is on the real time vfx forums uh rtv effects that's like really really good and you'll find lots of stuff there um rt effects yeah and i saw like some some game studios depending on the project they're working on they actually use references from real life like i don't know they use a flame very often thrower or something like water balloons or something with a camera all the time yeah my big my biggest reference you're correct my biggest reference is typing the thermobaric bomb on on youtube and looking at the looking at it in 0.25 yeah uh i can show you uh let's do there okay and you just do that and then you just look at that and just remove the sound uh can i have no this is not what i want uh test can can i get no yes cool i don't know this for instance no this is not helping either for instance no this is not helping either it's not hard usually typing the right the right name okay i'll take that for instance like i'll take this and then i'll say okay i want it in uh 0.25 so as slow as possible i'll remove the sound then i'll look at it there and then i'll let it i'll look at each frame if you use um the uh uh the what's the buttons for that in on a non-french keyboard i don't know the for me it's uh period and comma on youtube okay so it's the same then period and comma yeah you can use period and comma to go forward and backwards onto the animation and look at all the frames uh if you want to skip plus 10 and minus 10 you can plus five and minus five you can use the the arrow keys too and so basically you can go through everything and kind of see okay like oh this is what i have okay so there's there's a few frames of of of white and then the white here we can see that it's sharper and then it becomes more diffuse the edges here are sharper then it becomes more diffuse and then there's like some extra little bits that are coming out of it and at some point the heat comes up it comes up in one go and then it starts blasting um and then the the whole uh smoke starts to take fire basically and then it just dissolves so there's a point where it's like so bright that just like nothing is is visible obviously that's not something that we're going to be interested in but yeah you can go through that i think that that's like a really good tool to like study stuff uh you can also look for slow mo like videos for instance that's a really good way to to find stuff so like let's say that that slow mo and uh that can also help stuff all right let's look for like a slow mo use youtube test perfect yeah excellent let's look for anything that's in slow mo and so you just take a slow mo of like anything and that's going to help too so for instance like okay there's a water balloon blasting cool i can see it there and you can see how oh that's interesting actually when my bubble explodes it goes from 100% there to immediately like blasting with all the water in the air so you can have like those incredible views of like water as a shape completely in the air so in the future if you want to come in and make i don't know like an effect that is like a bubble of water that is sustained by some sort of wizard that holds it in the air in the bubble you can have like incredible uh like an incredible idea of like what this looks like if you if you just look at it in slow motion so yeah those are like those obviously make for incredible uh references to it i was just going to concur that yeah reference is your best friend yeah this is your real life real life is the best yeah for color theory in particular i suggest a lot using real life uh real life is just so good at color theory it will like if you're not we're going to touch on color theory in the next weeks so it's going to be fine but in general if you like colors uh if you if you don't know how to make a good color palette just look at like a tree outside and the tree outside will give you a good color palette just look at the color palette just look at like flowers or something out especially multicolored flowers you'll see that they are i'm just looking outside right now but they are they are like just it's such a good reference to give you an idea of like what colors are harmonious together and yeah the real life reference is is the best referencing other games make sure to not get caught with your search history of thermobaric bomb at the airport yeah i mean yeah i i am really not big into like like weapons and everything but i i know all the the the the names for like all the different weapons that do different things like i know the difference between like an oil and a fire that's like from oil and a fire that's from like uh wood a fire that's from like electric fire etc they are very different they look very different and they are associated to different things in our head so an oil fire is associated to very very different like um logics uh same like for instance like as as as sad as as it is like the like a oil uh a oil uh like a well that is on fire uh which is terrible is it still like incredible references like same i i remember that with our friends at some point with with colleagues we were uh like we were using the the explosion that happened in beirut five years ago as like also like just it is really good reference because we have it from lots of angles it's very but like you have to you build up a library of different things that you're looking for and some things are obviously will will try lead lead you to like explore different things and different different things that happen in the world but oftentimes you can just find slow mo of someone using a trap a mouse trap to destroy a water balloon and that's pretty common but yeah one thing i'll add on this is vocabulary is really important as an if you have the vocabulary to look for the specific thing you're looking for you will have way more success so interest yourself in what you like if you like explosions interest yourself of what words you can use to describe the different explosions so if you like i don't know for instance water and you want to know how water works if you have the words to describe that something is a laminar flow or a turbulent flow if you have the the the the the the fluid mechanics terms for instance that can help a lot if on the contrary you want to use this as like i don't know you hydroelectric you you know how hydroelectric works somehow and you know what's like oh you're looking for a video of some some impoundments that is like of this magnitude and that this will work for that thing like that those are all basically by knowing the technical term you can get access to footage that makes a lot more sense with what you're looking for at the moment so yeah just another thing to think about any other question before we leave each other oh i not a question but i did have a comment on the way back on the whole making mouth sounds and animating to it um yeah i've actually you can do that in blender um because there's the grease pencil tool which lets you like animate in 2d um and you can import sounds really easily into blender um so you can like animate like i've animated like a guide uh to like mouth sounds that's really cool i'm not surprised that it's in blender though like blender has like so many tools i use blender to animate to uh to uh edit my videos for it's like blender has an actual really good like video editor i'm not surprised that blender has like all those like really cool features yeah it's cool they do like the uh they've got like the outer glow and some post processing stuff too they've been getting better on the grease pencil you can make you can make full full films in blender quite impressive yeah yeah that's a good note uh i i that sounds like a super fun workflow that i think about my neighbors have definitely seen me like standing in the middle of my living room just making weird noises i'm sure they think i'm crazy perfect perfect that's that's what you want them to think it's important yeah no it's really fun to make to make to make sounds it's it's it's a good thing to to to learn how to do and also it's a good way to communicate um i've worked with teams of like 10 plus apex artists and uh the the the the work meetings are sometimes really fun when we get feedback on certain things and we're like oh you should do it more like rather than and it's so fun that's great yeah we have a fun job uh um yeah any last question before we leave each other yeah actually i was coming back to the week's exercise on the line we go thing i feel like key framing gives me like a lot more control over timing and on and over how i think things have to be applied like where do i add anticipation how things wait and how do they look in terms of perspective and uh camera and stuff and i have done very very little straight ahead in my life before this week so i could feel like the pain in my brain to try to figure out what the timing is going to be as i'm drawing frames so i kind of like re-watched uh jason's video a couple of times and i was like what the heck is going on like this guy does some wizardry that he's like okay i'm just gonna draw this and this and this because i know it's gonna be kind of fast and then he plays and it is kind of fast and like what so yeah great he just does those little guys and then he's just a little guy plus a little guy and boom you have an animation yeah it's really cool but yeah i was thinking was like sorry go ahead no go for it go for it finish your question i'm interested just finish your question yeah i was well got me thinking was like i don't know if this just because i'm more of a methodical guy or something but i felt like with keyframing it's probably it's probably gonna be my preferred way to work just because i get i got to stop and like plan things out and work on each step and then join them together but i do also feel that going straight ahead it's kind of liberating in a way because you get you get freedom to do stuff that you weren't thinking before and sometimes it leads you to cooler places than when you were anticipating stuff so yeah do you feel like there's a way to kind of mix those things and yeah i know it would be like best case scenario but maybe it's like lack of experience or something because i feel like you're straight ahead maybe because you're how i actually work which is not completely the the i have lied i am sorry um how i actually work is the following frames i do this i do like tap tap step tap tap why is it black okay tap tap tap tap okay and then i do just full like a head like just okay i would like to have a though it's better about that and then i'll do like like this one this one this one one then this and uh this then this and then i'll do like just this this this and then i'll do like one frame less than my ball then big ball then small ball then i'll stabilize it i'll add three frames three frames do it three frames and then i'll say okay now like i'll like add an empty frame and then i'll do it like a blast like with the first blast then a like second blast blast and then i'll do like like some residue like this then i'll give it a tiny bit and then i'll like this one i'll like duplicates twice so that i have like the timing there and then i'll just do like the one last one then be done and i'll do that then i'll play it and then i'll be happy with it and then i'll be like okay and now i move my frames around so what i do after that is that i say okay if i'm happy with this i'll usually do even less frames i think especially on the swirls at the start i'll be like okay i'm going to duplicate let's say that this i want to ease it out so i'll do one two three and then here the orb here the orb that's in the center here i want this to actually be significantly longer so i'm gonna give it more this was too long so i didn't like it so i'm gonna remove the frames etc i'll obviously get this longer too and i'll i usually remove that at the end when i don't need it anymore the blast here i liked it i think that this blast should be two frames instead of one and then call it the day and then i work on my timing and if i'm happy with it i just move on i add more frames as it comes and i just cook it basically so it's basically like doing um you get the the the vibe of like oh this is cool i'm doing my um my uh uh like i'm just going ahead and just like animating like with with the whim basically just doing whatever i want but after that i i use this as a sort of in the right that's kind of interesting you're kind of splitting three times the first one you kind of plan everything the second you animate freely kind of inside those constraints and the third time's like a final pass to adjust timing and could like fix anything that needs to be fixed exactly that's awesome yeah awesome i'm glad that this is useful yeah i like this process a lot i think it's very fun and also it's a bit addictive it's like you can't stop like it's it's really fun to do and then once you do it you can't stop really like just playing around with it and just adding extra stuff yeah i think it really takes iteration as well it's really cool yeah yeah um so yeah that's pretty fun to do and it's also really good to like quickly work on timing so here for instance i can really easily add frames and frames like just f5 everywhere add frames remove frames until i'm happy with the motion and then from there i can implement that game and work without my timing right and then like those hold frames when you're going to export something to go to go in engine do you do you like fix the timings in engine or do you really like export a different frame that is basically the same image because that's like kind of quote unquote wasted memory right because if there's a duplicate frame the same frame could be used twice but is there a way to make it an engine so that you like extend this stops technically you should yeah you can totally do that you can add it completely you can make it a curve that's like the number of frames that you're passing by and so basically you can be like like a curve that goes up then the frame that you want to hold you just make it like make it flat usually in my flipbooks i very often make a curve that's like has a slight curve so that i can add add an extra ease in ease out into it afterwards in engine because the option is not always there to like go back and it is completely the flipbook when you're in production that said uh memory issues are uh not that big of a deal there's it's quite rare that uh as a vfx artist you were asked oh don't add an extra frame into your your effect the one thing that you're going to do is that you will sometimes delete it just to gain extra space onto your four by four 16 frame flipbook as the texture size that is something that you're constrained if i i can't make a 17 frame flipbook it's not going to fit on a four by four so i need to do like a five by five and at that at that time like the pixels are going to be super small on it so i yeah like eight that's that's where the constraint is there any so like my four is i'm sorry that is like real quick the second question follow-up is is there any different you're probably going to get to it in later stages but is there any different constraints or considerations when doing uh effects for ui because i know some engines are more friendly and i've worked on some pretty hard ones for ui where particle systems have to be different because they're rendering a different way ui is rendered a different way than the rest of the game in some different engines so is there a different worry about it when you're creating especially 2d effects for ui instead of the game itself i do not specifically i have not i don't have enough experience why what i can tell you for uh ui in particular is that you don't design it in the same way technically uh i think use particle it's not that much of a problem but it has some constraints and some things just work um just not really because they don't work like hard like as a like rendering but it's more that they don't work sometimes they're the way that the camera is set up it's too close or yeah some effects might occlude with the rest of the gameplay so yeah overall it's mostly design i would say than actual technical limitation um some things don't work it's mostly that they're annoying to set up more than they actually don't they they do work it's just it's more it's more it's harder to set it up but i will i will i will say i don't have that much experience making uh ui vfx usually ui artists are the ones making ui vfx and the effects artists actually don't get to do that i haven't had the opportunity to make a lot of uh someone has a question yeah so the four by four flip books are usually like what what you end up with yes very often we have four by four that's that's very very common uh two by two or three by three and four by four i have seen one by fours uh or one by eight for instance uh obvious like very often it's four by four most of the like if i went to my files right now and i looked at just like uh flipbooks most of them are four i'm i'm i'm quickly looking through things but yeah most of them are four by four uh check my stuff textures shaders textures yeah i have like two by twos sure there's some four by fours here crown cracks so much stuff uh two by twos those are more sprite sheets those are flipbooks four by fours almost all flip books i would say like my budget for every single flip book i make is four by four uh those are two by two but those are spreadsheets too spreadsheets basically are they look like flipbooks but they are actually just when you spawn a particle system when you spawn a particle like let's say i start i spawn a spark pick one of the four at random that's very common technique um here there's another flip book here um and those this is also a four by four sure there's some other ones but yeah i would say most of the flip books are four by fours this is also a four by four although the format is so weak this is also four by four also four by four you're like using little sparks and things like that uh do you reuse them between clients or is that like a no no uh why it doesn't matter really i have never had any problems using reusing them uh do i this is also a big flip book uh do i reuse uh so reusing clients rarely an issue do i reuse textures very often i use my text that said uh when i'm working for clients usually i try to restart to rebuild things from scratch that way we're building a clean library that we can then use for everything so i'll come up and i'll make like a series of glows or earrings of despite of uh of like little luminous blobs that i want to like stuff like that um usually is because i want to keep the arched out kind of consistent so if all the sparks are the same it will look better than if one of them uses the other one the other text etc it's very common that if i'm going to build like an explosion i'm going to make i'm going to use what was already used for that previous explosion before so i'm going to take the same sparks and use that the same way that way they look consistent um not always like if you're playing league of legends for instance you're probably going to want to make something that looks specific to your the character you're working on so if you want the sparks to trail longer or to be more glowy or to have more texture or on the contrary to be more sharp if you're working for instance as we were saying uh a skin line that works specifically that that needs sharper edges but otherwise most of the time it it doesn't you can just reuse stuff when you're working uh for yourself when you're just like making like this is my portfolio for instance uh like i just like make stuff when i have ideas and um this is my like personal project basically and like they are i reuse stuff all the time like it's just reusing reusing reusing and when you're working for a client you you reuse all the time like once you made something you're just going to keep reusing it normally they do this for long enough you will have a favorite texture and you will be like oh i'm going to use my favorite uh sorry are they hand painted or do you use like something like substance designer so mine are all hand painted but you can totally use something make them too um i have them hand painted because it's faster for me to hand paint them although i do do a lot of general generative um uh like uh i do uh some some noise generation that i then use to to work directly in game so stuff like this this is made with like absolutely zero textures for instance i made no textures at all this is all just noise basically so every one of those has like a shader that is working on like some some noise parts and so like they're they are like made so that they're uh they will adapt automatically to whatever shape i have and then from there when i animate them they like they are made to kind of like work together so those are just like kind of round shapes that are um put in in space in a specific way and then that i can then work around and use to uh shape however i want so yeah that's like just a technique there's there's lots of different space cool yeah that's fun i i like using i like using uh generated noise and then like working with that so as a sneak peek just to have an idea of what it looks like this are those are like the textures look like kind of like this this is just a gradient noise and then what you do is that you just cut it around and that makes like a little blob it gives textures to things and then if you play around with it enough it will just like start like cutting i i picked the wrong one but i think if i take water blast i'll show you um i oh yeah basically it's like noise it's the same i showed i showed before yeah i can't show it i don't have a good preview of it um yeah no it's have a good preview but anyway it does uh can i do this yeah i could do that probably yeah you see it it cuts the shape in a way so from there you can kind of do whatever you want the bubbles here kind of see it so do you use this like before you kind of have an idea what the texture would be like or um do i do this before i have an idea of the texture so this is has no texture at all so that way yeah i understand it's all generated noise but it's fine this is not particularly like this is a specific technique i was just showing the the things that you can do but yeah it's it's not particularly necessary yes um just i was just trying to like explain there are many different ways to do things um but yeah you for textures in general what i recommend to do is just make them simple and then you'll learn how to make like complicated textures in the future textures are not pretty paintings they're not like pretty things they're just tools that will indicate to the computer what you want them to do and so try to use try to think of them more as like a set of instructions to to the computer rather than a set of instructions to to the computer rather than an actual print would be my best advice yeah so for someone who doesn't draw well so you kind of worried like do you have to really like draw them well or i don't think you have to know how to draw to make textures at all like on the contrary i think i think like it's those are two different skills um if you know how to draw well you will make pretty text pretty textures probably and that can be useful but if you don't know how to draw well you can totally learn how to make textures and that will be completely fine it's about the technique um that said if you want to use Substance Designer knock yourself out like really Substance Designer is really fun what i did here what why i was showing this uh this like water blast here is that actually this is very close to how Substance Designer works i just do it real time rather than baking it into a texture but you can totally do that in Substance Designer that will work i think Substance Designer is quite slow is my main issue but that's about it the process of making textures in substance can be quite slow i see oh it's fine thank you um okay i think we're good for today um so uh if you have any extra questions that come up feel free to send me a message if you have anything else that you want to ask on the forums feel free to fill that up i will keep answering everything that you have on the forums and otherwise have a good weekend i will see you all on monday on monday i'll do a review so remember to send one thing that you did during the week that you want feedback on or that you're particularly proud of or that gave you the most difficulties and the assignment and submission posts so at the top of the forum where you you post usually your updates there's a big assignment and submission pinned forum post and i'll pick stuff from there and i'll do the review on monday yeah um yeah otherwise i'll see you all on monday have a good one see you on there thank you